Welcome - Ancient Cornwall
Ancient Cornwall
The Story of the Stones
Home
Downloads
Feeds
Links
Contact
Privacy Policy
Site Manager
Create account or Sign in
Home
Sections
Historical Illustrations
Blight's Crosses
Articles
Site
Site Map
List all Pages
Recent Changes
Tag Cloud
Random Page
Top 20 Tags
Bookmark or Share
Translate
Visitors
☜✵ஐ✵☞
© Chris Bond 2004-16
Welcome
Ancient Cornwall: The Story of the Stones
Lanyon Cromlech, c.1860s.
© Cornwall Record Office.
This is the story of Cornwall's ancient past; wrought in quartz, elvan and granite and, for the most part, seemingly oblivious to the storms and tempests of the past few millenia. Cornwall has a special place when it comes to antiquities. It has an abundance of monuments, especially those of the prehistoric ages, and the sheer desolation of its moorlands have shielded many of the stone monuments of its distant past from destruction. Not so the organic matter which was often buried alongside or within these monuments; the acid soil has a fondness for supreme decomposition. No matter. The bodies rot but the stones remain. We need not the body of Da Vinci that we may appreciate his creations. The creations achieve immortality in a way that flesh can but dream of.
This modest collection of photographs, illustrations and texts will give but little indication of the true nature of Cornwall's ancient monuments, and of the profusion of its stock in this respect. It is but a small piece of the jigsaw. I remember, as a child, visiting the courtyard settlement at Chysauster and attempting to comprehend the vast span of time between the creation of it, and of me. It was then that I remembered a game that most of the children at one of my primary schools in the north of England had played at break time a few years before my visit to the courtyard settlement. The children had, unconsciously to my mind and with no input from the teachers, constructed a crude settlement of small houses, in reality just low walls. They would barter with rocks of differing sizes. On reflection, it seemed to me that the vast span of time between Chysauster and I were not so great after all.
Please note that this website is copyright of Chris Bond, and that some of the images reproduced here, with permission, are the copyright of other persons and organisations, and that no material from this website should be reproduced elsewhere without prior permission being given.
Help
|
Terms of Service
|
Privacy
|
Report a bug
|
Flag as objectionable
Powered by Wikidot.com
Click here to edit contents of this page.
Click here to toggle editing of individual sections of the page (if possible).
Watch headings for an "edit" link when available.
Append content without editing the whole page source.
Check out how this page has evolved in the past.
If you want to discuss contents of this page - this is the easiest way to do it.
View and manage file attachments for this page.
A few useful tools to manage this Site.
See pages that link to and include this page.
Change the name (also URL address, possibly the category) of the page.
View wiki source for this page without editing.
View/set parent page (used for creating breadcrumbs and structured layout).
Notify administrators if there is objectionable content in this page.
Something does not work as expected? Find out what you can do.
General Wikidot.com documentation and help section.
Wikidot.com Terms of Service - what you can, what you should not etc.
Wikidot.com Privacy Policy.
