Home - Cornwall Archaeological Society
↓
JAVASCRIPT IS DISABLED. Please enable JavaScript on your browser to best view this site.
Cornwall Archaeological Society
Search for:
Home
About Us
The Society
History
Publications
Events & Activities
Activities
Events Calendar
Archaeology Portal
Members Area
Become a member
Committee and Panel
Research Tools
Journals
Newsletters
Members News
Contact Us
Supporting, exploring and recording archaeological activity throughout Cornwall. Find out about our events and activities.
Welcome to everyone interested in the archaeology of Cornwall and Scilly.
For over 50 years our Society has been the principal archaeological organization in Cornwall and Scilly. The Society acts as the forum that brings together amateur archaeologists, professional archaeologists and all those interested in Cornwall’s past and the preservation of its archaeological heritage.
Today, with over 450 members, our activities are varied and inclusive. The society arranges over a dozen talks, monthly walks and annual conferences and special events. We also run our own fieldwork and research projects and encourage members to take part with likeminded organisations. Our annual journal is a well-respected, peer reviewed publication, and has for more than 50 years published the majority of archaeological research projects carried out in Cornwall and Scilly. Our regular newsletter keeps members up to date on news of people, events and activities.
Please explore our website, find out about us and how you can join us, explore the archaeology of your area, and become more involved.
Latest News
Monument of the Month – February
Stones sacred and profane. A turnpike milestone and a wayside cross on the A30 at Crows- an- Wra  (cross of the witch) in St Buryan parish at SW39982755 Sent in by David Giddings … Continue reading →
Membership Renewal
Please remember that membership renewal was due on 1 January 2017. If you haven’t a standing order or have already paid either by cheque or through PayPal, please let the Membership Secretary have your payment soon. The membership fee is … Continue reading →
Area Reps – January Update
Your monthly report on the work of the CAS area representatives … Continue reading →
Our Publications
Our Journal records research into the archaeology of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, including excavations and reassessments of earlier finds.
A Newsletter, published 3 times a year, keeps members in touch with our events and other activities in Cornwall and beyond.
Copies of both publications, along with a reading list are available to read for free on the publications page.
Find out more...
Our Events
We offer winter lectures in Liskeard and Truro, which cover topics at home and abroad.
Throughout the year members explore archaeological sites in Cornwall and sometimes farther afield with expert guides.
Every year we have either a conference concentrating on Archaeology in Cornwall or a day of presentations shared with Devon Archaeological Society.
Find out more...
Why Join Us?
If you want to help us learn more about archaeology or explore Cornish sites by survey or excavation, join us.
Like- minded people will give you a warm welcome and we will discover Cornwall’s archaeology together.
Find out more...
Events Calendar
<<
Feb 2017
>>
MTWTFSS
30
31
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
1
2
3
4
5
Become a member
My Tweets
General Enquiries: secretary@cornisharchaeology.org.uk
Membership: membership@cornisharchaeology.org.uk
Publications: publications@cornisharchaeology.org.uk
Cornwall Archaeological Society
c/o Royal Cornwall Museum
River St, Truro
Cornwall TR1 2SJ
Search for:
© 2015, Cornwall Archaeological Society.
Registered Charity 1055654
↑
