Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall
Show navigation
Hide navigation
Home
Articles
News
Blog
Policies
Our Team
Contact Us
Support MK
Membership
Volunteering
Donations
This website uses Cookies
Privacy Policy | Close
Members' Area
Login
Register
This website requires Javascript to be enabled for some of its features to work, including the menu bar. If you would prefer not to enable Javascript, you can use the links at the bottom of the page to visit the different sections of the website, but please keep in mind that the website may not look or work as intended.
An end to austerity politics
Mebyon Kernow – the Party for Cornwall is working with progressive alternatives across the United Kingdom, such as Plaid Cymru and the SNP, to bring an end to the austerity agenda of the London-based political parties.
Decent public services for all
Mebyon Kernow – the Party for Cornwall is committed to a just and fair society. We believe effective public intervention is needed to combat poverty, tackle social deprivation and fight for the disadvantaged, and to tackle ills in Cornish society, such as social deprivation, unemployment, low wages and poor housing.
A strategy for a sustainable economy
Mebyon Kernow is campaigning for the rebalancing of the United Kingdom economy, away from the present concentration on London and the South East of England. This includes a commitment to an Economic Fairness Act to ensure that Cornwall gets its fair share of government investment.
A fair tax system
MK is committed to effective public intervention to tackle ills in society such as unemployment and poor housing.
This means that there is a need for a sufficient public resource and this implies fair and redistributive taxation.
Planning in and for Cornwall
Mebyon Kernow – the Party for Cornwall supports well-balanced planning policies which protect the Cornish countryside, while allowing appropriate developments that meet the needs of local communities (ie. proper local-needs housing).
Affordable homes for local people
Mebyon Kernow – the Party for Cornwall believes that local families have a fundamental right to good quality housing, both for purchase and rent, in their own communities and at a price that is truly affordable to people of Cornish wages.
A Climate Change Act for Cornwall
Mebyon Kernow understands that unsustainability is truly global and must be tackled through action at worldwide as well as local levels.
Fair funding for Cornwall
Mebyon Kernow – the Party for Cornwall has a proud record of campaigning for fair funding for Cornwall and its local communities. We know that Cornwall gets a raw deal from Westminster.
Greater self-government for Cornwall
Mebyon Kernow believes that the historic nation of Cornwall, with its own distinct identity, language and heritage, has the same right to self-determination as other constituent parts of the UK, such as Scotland and Wales.
A more just and peaceful World
Mebyon Kernow is an internationalist and outward-looking political party. Our vision for Cornwall and the World is underpinned by respect for the diversity of the planet, both its human cultural traditions and its natural environment.
A reformed Europe
It is our belief that nations and regions throughout the World should work together, but that does not mean we are not critical of how the European Union is presently constituted. The Europe of today is one of centralisation, limited democratic control, big business and bureaucracy, and MK – along with many other progressive groups in the European Free Alliance – is campaigning for the increased democratisation of the EU, greater transparency and increased Cornish representation.
Recognition for Cornwall
In 2014, central government bowed to years of pressure and recognised the Cornish people through the Framework Convention on National Minorities. This cultural recognition, embodied in minority status, is a landmark ruling. The challenge now for the people of Cornwall must be to achieve a wider acceptance of our right to greater control over our political, civic, and economic lives through the creation of a legislative National Assembly of Cornwall.
Putting Cornwall First
Tweets by @MebyonKernow
Mebyon Kernow is
a progressive left-of-centre party in Cornwall. We are striving to build a confident and outward-looking Cornwall that has the
power to take decisions, directly affecting the people of Cornwall, locally.
Our policies are founded on three core values:Prosperity for allSocial justiceEnvironmental protectionThe historic Nation of Cornwall has its own
distinct identity, language and heritage. As one of the four nations inhabiting
the British mainland, Cornwall has the same right to self-determination as England,
Scotland and Wales. Mebyon Kernow is leading the campaign for the creation of a
National Assembly for Cornwall, with the necessary powers to unlock Cornwall’s
true potential.
Membership
Volunteering
Donations
Latest News Articles
Local Councillor concern over potential loss of PCSOsA prominent councillor from Clay Country has challenged Alison Hernandez, the Police and Crime Commissioner, to retain Police Community Support Officers in his area.5th February 2017Read More...Could you stand for Cornwall in the 2017 elections?The voters of Cornwall will soon (May 4th) be going to the polls to elect 123 unitary councillors (and hundreds of town and parish councillors) to serve the people of Cornwall for the next four years.22nd January 2017Read More...15 years on from the 50,000 declarations, MK leader demands meaningful devolutionFifteen years ago today (12th December 2001), a delegation presented 50,000 Declarations demanding a Cornish Assembly to 10 Downing Street. To mark this anniversary, the Leader of Mebyon Kernow has challenged Westminster political parties to back “meaningful democratic devolution to Cornwall.”12th December 2016Read More...Party leader issues rallying call to party conferenceIn a rallying call to the Mebyon Kernow Annual Conference (19th November 2016), Party Leader Cllr Dick Cole has challenged party members and supporters to redouble their efforts in advance of next year’s local elections.27th November 2016Read More...
Latest Blog Posts
Community built homes – is this the answer?Many Town and Parish Councils are frustrated when the discover that “Affordable Houses” revert to being “Open Market Houses” when they are sold on. Members of the public are even more confused. Could Community Land Trusts be the answer?11th February 2017Read More...What about community policing in Clay Country?My article in this coming week’s Cornish Guardian will focus on the new Police and Crime Plan and the threat to Police Community Support Officers in areas such as Clay Country.5th February 2017Read More...Fair funding for NHS and social care"From my perspective, I share the view expressed in the editorial in last week’s Cornish Guardian, that a political consensus is needed to safeguard the NHS and to properly fund social care."22nd January 2017Read More...Proper action needed on "second homes"At the very end of 2016, the Government announced that it would be making £60 million available to help “tackle the problem of high levels of second homeownership” in certain communities across the United Kingdom.22nd January 2017Read More...
©2017 Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall. All Rights Reserved.
Promoted by: Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall,
Lanhainsworth, Fraddon Hill, Fraddon, St Columb, TR9 6PQ.
Click here to read our Privacy Policy. Website Created by Lemur Logic.
