Tamar Valley | An area of outstanding beauty
Tamar Valley
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
About
Search for:
Home Improvement, Plymouth, Roofing
Supporting Local Business
September 13, 2016 admin Leave a comment
Welcome!
My name’s Mark and i’m the admin of this Blog.
I’m writing this post because of a fantastic experience I had with a roofing company in Plymouth (Plymouth Roofers) & it made me think, that given the chance we should always promote and recommend local businesses if they have provided a good service.
Continue reading Supporting Local Business →
Tamar, Valley, Woodland
Places to eat and drink in Tamar Valley
August 29, 2016 admin Leave a comment
When you’re visiting Tamar Valley, to get the best out of your time here, you must try the food that the local restaurants have to offer. From pub grub to fine dining, whatever you fancy, Tamar Valley restaurants can offer you. There are so many beautiful, delicious places to eat so to make it easier I have listed my top favourite 5 restaurants that I personally think are the best. Continue reading Places to eat and drink in Tamar Valley →
Food, Hotel, Tamar, Valley
Places to stay in Tamar Valley
July 29, 2016 admin Leave a comment
When visiting Tamar Valley, it’s important that you choose the right place. All of the hotels in Tamar Valley and surrounding areas are beautiful places but deciding which one is best for you, is imperative.
Continue reading Places to stay in Tamar Valley →
Birmingham, Transport, Valley
Things to do in Tamar Valley
May 16, 2016 admin Leave a comment
The Tamar Valley can be enjoyed by anybody! Whatever it is you want to do, whether that be, horse riding, walking, running, cycling or maybe you want a more relaxed experience and you would rather eat out, go shopping or visit the beautiful historic gardens and homes! You name it, Tamar Valley can offer it! Continue reading Things to do in Tamar Valley →
Landscapes, Tamar, Valley
What is the Tamar River?
March 1, 2016 admin Leave a comment
The Tamar river is a beautiful river in the South West of England. The Tamar river is a very historic place and is a world heritage because of its mining history. The river is what forms a lot of the border between the west coast of Cornwall and the east coast of Devon. Continue reading What is the Tamar River? →
Landscapes, Nature, Valley
Why visit Tamar Valley?
February 11, 2016 admin Leave a comment
Tamar Valley is a beautiful unspoilt landscape. This remarkable area is full of historic buildings and mines and is hugely popular for its stunning scenery. As I live in Tamar Valley, I know just how beautiful it really is and how lucky I am to leave in such an untouched location. Continue reading Why visit Tamar Valley? →
Food, Hotel, Landscapes, Nature, Plymouth, Tamar, Valley, Woodland
All about Tamar Valley
January 27, 2016 admin Leave a comment
The Tamar Valley is an area that has the ability to take your breath away! Tamar Valley is famous for its astonishing natural beauty and the fact that it sits beautifully around the rivers of the Tamar river, Tavy river and the Lynher river. As it was a mining landscape, it is famous in history and is a place to visit for a lot of people who are into the historic world. Continue reading All about Tamar Valley →
An area of outstanding beauty
Search for:
Recent Posts
Supporting Local Business
Places to eat and drink in Tamar Valley
Places to stay in Tamar Valley
Things to do in Tamar Valley
What is the Tamar River?
Recent CommentsArchives
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
May 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
Categories
Birmingham
Food
Home Improvement
Hotel
Landscapes
Nature
Plymouth
Roofing
Tamar
Transport
Valley
Woodland
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Proudly powered by WordPress
