Biomass Energy resources (Forest Research)
Skip banner navigation | Skip all navigation
Forest Research
Menu
Access our resources
General biomass information Fuel Combustion equipment Technical and regulatory Reference
Biomass energy resources
The Biomass Energy Centre resources have a new home Previously hosted on the Biomass Energy Centre (BEC) website, the resources available on these pages offer the most authoritative information on biomass energy.  From advice on equipment to regulatory information, these comprehensive resources have been revamped and are free to our users. N.B. You may have been redirected here when trying to follow a cached or bookmarked link to a page in the old website.  Most of the core contents from the old site should still be available, however the site structure has been reorganized a little so it may be in a different place.  Some information that is time sensitive, or relates to bioenergy topics not relevant to forestry (such as AD, for which go to the Official AD Portal) has not been retained.
General biomass information
General background information about what biomass is and why you might want to use it.
Fuel
Information about types of woodfuel, where it comes from and how it can be produced.  There is information about forestry as a source of woodfuel and also energy crops.
Equipment
Information about the different types of equipment available to make use of the various forms of woodfuel, some of their characteristics, advantages and disadvantages.
Technical and regulatory
International standards and specifications for solid biofuels and equipment help ensure efficient, safe, trouble free operation, regulations to ensure equipments is installed safely and pollution is avoided.  Also information on sustainability and emissions.
Reference
This section contains the facts and figures pages, the publications and downloads, links and the glossary.
BEC woodfuel suppliers database (NBSD)
This (external link) leads to Google Map based database of suppliers of different forms of woodfuel within the UK.  Suppliers can be filtered on the basis of fuel type (e.g. firewood logs, woodchips, pellets, etc.), and also by accreditation (such as Woodsure).  However this is simply an online database as a service both to UK woodfuel users and suppliers and there is no assessment or endorsement by Forest Research or the Biomass Energy Centre. If you are a UK woodfuel retail supplier the database if free to sign up for and there is a button on the NBSD website to allow you to enter your details
What's of interest
For more information on our resources please contact biomass.centre@forestry.gsi.gov.uk
More woodfuel pages from the Forestry Commission:
Woodfuel - Energy that grows on trees
including:
Grants and Support for Woodland Owners
Grants and Support for Woodfuel Supply Chain
and
Government Woodfuel Policy
For information on anaerobic digestion visit the AD Portal
Corporate
About us
Our commissioners and staff, how we work, what we do, Health & Safety
Contact us
Where to find us, how to get in touch
Jobs
Working for us, vacancies, volunteering, career opportunities
Buying and selling
Timber sales, tenders, forest gifts, clothes and accessories, how to sell to us
Modern Slavery – Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Resources
News
New stories and announcements, media contacts
Library
Publications and images
Datasets
Statistics and economic research, National Forest Inventory, GIS data download, register of approved basic material
Topics
Pests and diseases
Top threats, plant health, timber import and export, biosecurity
Sustainable forestry
UK Forestry standard, climate change, Woodland Carbon Code
Research into forestry
Forestry science and innovation strategy, current programmes
Tree name trail
Follow our tree identification guide
Organisation
Forestry Commission EnglandForestry Commission ScotlandForestry in WalesForest Research agency
Crown copyright
Privacy and cookie policy
Disclaimers
About this website