Home : PIRUS2
Jump to Content
User:Password:
Home
Contact us
Sidebar
Search
in:
Entire Site
Wiki Pages
Files
Articles
FAQs
Browse
About
Project Plan & Progress
News & Activities
Links
Funded by
Funding programme: Information Environment Programme 2009-11
PIRUS2
October 2011 - update
The PIRUS2 Project has been successfully completed. Download the
PIRUS2 Final Report.
As part of the exit stategy, the team is currently working on a formal COUNTER PIRUS Code of Practice.
Process and timetable for development
Task 1: Nov/Dec 2011: draft PIRUS Code of Practice document
Task 2: Jan/Feb 2012: feedback on draft Code from PIRUS2 Project Team and from COUNTER Executive; modify in light of comments
Task 3: March 2012: publish draft Code on COUNTER website for comments
PIRUS2, sponsored by JISC (the United Kingdom Joint Information Systems Committee) built on the outcomes and recommendations of the original PIRUS (Publisher and Institutional Repository Usage Statistics) project, also funded by JISC, which was completed in January 2009. The full report of the original PIRUS project may be found at: http://tinyurl.com/PIRUSreport1
The original PIRUS project demonstrated that it is technically feasible to create, record and consolidate usage statistics for individual articles using data from repositories and publishers, despite the diversity of organizational and technical environments in which they operate. If this is to be translated into a new, implementable COUNTER standard and protocol, further research and development will be required, specifically in the following areas:
Technical: further tests, with a wider range of repositories and a larger volume of data, will be required to ensure that the proposed protocols and tracker codes are scalable/extensible and work in the major repository environments.
Organizational: the nature and mission of the central clearing house/houses proposed in the original project has to be developed, and candidate organizations identified and tested
Economic: we need to assess the costs for repositories and publishers of generating the required usage reports, as well as the costs of any central clearing house/houses; investigate how these costs could be allocated between stakeholders
Advocacy: the broad support of all the major stakeholder groups (repositories, publishers, authors) will be required. Intellectual property, privacy and financial issues will have to be addressed
The objective of PIRUS2 was to address these issues and by doing so specify standards, protocols, an infrastructure and an economic model for the recording, reporting and consolidation of online usage of individual articles hosted by repositories, publishers and other entities.
Created by: admin.
Last Modification: Monday 21 of November, 2011 10:02:10 UTC by admin.
1 File Attached(Hide)
List of attached files
id
Name
desc
uploaded
Size
Downloads
1
170
PIRUS2FinalReport.pdf
PIRUS2 Final Report
Mon 21 of Nov., 2011 09:53 UTC by admin
3.80 Mb
4767
Copyright © Cranfield University 2009
Powered by TikiWiki CMS/Groupware
v2.4
-Arcturus-
