Access to Higher Education - Home
Skip to main navigation
Skip to content
Accessibility|Text only| Text size: A A A|
Display: Default / High contrast
Search
GO
ACCEPT AND HIDE THIS MESSAGEWe use cookies on this website. If you continue to use the website, we will use cookies to maximise your experience and help us to improve.To find out more about cookies, how we use them and how to remove them, see our privacy and cookies statement.
Home
The Access to HE experience
Search for Diplomas
How Diplomas are regulated
About us
For education staff
For AVAs
Home
What is Access to HE?
The Access to Higher Education Diploma is a qualification which prepares people without traditional qualifications for study at university.
Access to HE courses are delivered by colleges in England and Wales, and are available in a range of different subjects, such as nursing, social studies, law, and art and design.
Find out more about the Access to HE Diploma.
Check the register of QAA-recognised Access to HE Diplomas to make sure your course is recognised by higher education providers.
https://www.youtube.com/embed/QdxV07iUzgQ
What is Access to HE?
Is it right for me?
How do I find a course?
How do I apply?
Why do an Access to HE Diploma?
Variety
There are over 1,100 courses available in a wide range of subjects, from business to nursing.
Flexibility
Study full-time or part-time, for one year or more.
Distance learning and evening courses are also available.
Recognition
The Access to HE Diploma is regulated by QAA and widely recognised by UK universities.
Opportunity
More than 20,000 Access to HE students apply for degree courses each year.
They go on to study a wide range of subjects, like law, education, and business.
Quick Launch
Lists
About us
About the Access to HE team
About QAA
Committees information
News and events
Publications library
Glossary
For AVAs
For education staff
Further education staff
Higher education staff
How Diplomas are regulated
AVA profiles
About AVAs and AVA review method
Statistics
How to get a course recognised by QAA
Search
The Access to HE experience
About the Access to HE Diploma
Real life stories
How to choose an Access course
How to apply
FAQs
Next steps
Access to HE and Service personnel
RSS Feeds
Page not found
Accessibility
Site Map
Access to HE - Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Copyright policy
Quick linksSearch for a courseThe Access to HE experienceFor AVAsFor education staff
Keep in touchContact usFollow usWatch us
This website is owned and maintained by The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA).
QAA safeguards quality and standards in UK higher education, and recognises and regulates Access to HE courses.
Download and Install BrowseAloud
UK Web Archive
© The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher EducationPrivacy and cookiesAccessibilitySite map
