UK Web Archive
Latest Instances | Translate to Welsh
UK Web Archive
You are here:
Home
Provided by:
Home
About
Search the archive
Browse the archive
Visualisation
Mementos
Nominate a site
FAQs
Technical information
Archive statistics
UK Web Archive Blog
Contact
Quick search
Full text (across all the archived websites)
Title (for a specific archived website)
Advanced search
Initiated by:
Welcome to the UK Web Archive
Thousands of UK websites have been collected since 2004 and the Archive is growing fast.
Here you can see how sites have changed over time, locate information no longer available on the live Web and observe the unfolding history of a spectrum of UK activities represented online. Sites that no longer exist elsewhere are found here and those yet to be archived can be saved for the future by nominating them.
The Archive contains sites that reflect the rich diversity of lives and interests throughout the UK. Search is by Title of Website, Full Text or URL, or browse by Subject, Special Collection or Alphabetical List.
Cookies on the UK Web Archive website
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the UK Web Archive website. Click here for more information.
Explore the Special Collections
Special Collections are groups of websites brought together on a particular theme by librarians, curators and other specialists, often working in collaboration with key organisations in the field. They can be events-based (e.g The Olympic & Paralympic Games 2012), topical (e.g. The Credit Crunch Collection) or subject-oriented (e.g. The British Countryside Collections).
Blogs
Credit Crunch
Live Art
London Terrorist Att...
Olympic & Paralympic...
Personal Experiences...
Quakers
Queen's Diamond Jubi...
UK General Election ...
UK General Election ...
Browse Special Collections
Quick links
What is the UK Web Archive?
Who is the UK Web Archive for?
How do I search the archive?
How can I nominate a website?
Video: An Introduction to the UK Web Archive (7 minutes).
Browse by Subject
Arts & Humanities
Business, Economy & Industry
Education & Research
Government, Law & Politics
Medicine & Health
Science & Technology
Society & Culture
Browse by Subject
Visualisations
N-gram Search
Notice and takedown|
Terms and conditions|
Privacy statement
