The QA Focus Web site
The QA Focus Web site
[ Home Page - Surveys - Documents - Presentations - Search ]
QA Focus
Background
The QA Focus project was funded by the
JISC to support
JISC's digital library programmes. QA Focus was provided by a partnership
of UKOLN (University of Bath) and the AHDS
(who replaced the TASI service).
QA Focus's remit was to help ensure that project deliverables were interoperable
and widely accessible. We sought to ensure that projects deployed appropriate standards
and best practices. We did this by providing support materials which explained
the recommended standards and best practices and carrying out a number of surveys
which helped to share evolving practices across the projects.
QA Focus also developed a QA
methodology which was designed to suit projects' development environment and culture.
Status of this Web Site
The QA Focus project ran from 2002 - 2004. After the successful completion of
the project the Web site ceased to be maintained, except for some minor updates to the site.
The Web site was frozen in January 2013.
Key Resources on this Web Site
An introduction to the work on QA Focus is given in the
Summary of the QA Focus Methodology
and Implementing Your Own QA
briefing documents.
The other resources provided by the project were:
Briefing documents
Case studies
Papers and articles
Key Outputs
The key outputs of the QA Focus project have been uploaded to Opus, the
University of Bath institutional repository. These are:
QA Focus Final Report
QA Focus Handbook: For JISC Digital Library Programmes
a collection of the key briefing papers, case studies and peer-reviewed papers.
QA Focus Briefing Documents Available Under A Creative Commons Licence
The QA Focus Briefing Documents
are available for use under a Creative Commons licence.
The licence allows
you to download, edit and use the documents for non-commercial purposes
provided you give appropriate acknowledgements.
About the QA Focus Project Web Site
A summary of the technical architecture of the QA Focus web site
is available.
In order to help ensure the robustness of the QA Focus web site
a series of automated technical audits
were carried out.
An automated technical audit
was carried out in August 2004, shortly after the finish of the project. This audit
showed that the web site appears to conform with HTML standards and apart from a
small number of links to a database which is no longer running, most internal links
function correctly.
Note that an additional audit of internal links was carried out on 7 August 2012.
It was found that the majority of internal links are still working correctly.
Audit of QA Focus Web Site
On 7 January 2013 the Xenu link checking tool was used to provide a report
on the validity of internal links on the QA Focus Web site and provide a summary
of the URLs on the Web site. The report is available.
Archive
An archive of the QA Focus Web site
is available on the Internet Archive.
On 11 June 2013 this Web site had been crawled 85 times going back to 1 April 2003.
The most recent archive was taken on
18 January 2013.
Note that this Web site is also available on the UK Web archive.
Contact Details
The QA Focus project was carried out by staff at UKOLN (Brian Kelly, Marieke Guy
and Amanda Closier), TASI, University of Bristol (Karla Young and Ed Bremner)
and AHDS (Hamish James, Alastair Dunning and Gareth Knight).
Brian Kelly (Project Manager)
UKOLN
University of Bath
BATH
BA2 7AY
Email: B.Kelly@ukoln.ac.uk
Quick Links
About QA Focus
QA Focus documentation:
Briefing papers
Case studies
Papers and articles
QA Focus presentations
Toolkit
In-house QA
Search the Site
Feeds
About QA Focus Feeds
Briefings
Case Studies
Papers
Presentations
Surveys
OPML
Note that the RSS and OPML files are designed for loading to an RSS viewer.
[ Home Page - Surveys - Documents - Presentations - Search ]
Web page by Brian Kelly of UKOLN.
Last Modified 11-June-2013
Email comments to webmaster@ukoln.ac.uk
