R4L: The Repository for the Laboratory - a JISC Project
University of Southampton
> ECS > R4L
> Home
Home | Overview
| News | Papers
and Presentations | Technologies
| Background
| People
Supporting Laboratory
Research through digital repositories
R4L Noticeboard, latest ...
> R4L Final Report
The project Final Report has been compiled and given to JISC.
More ...
> R4L in D-Lib Magazine
A short article about the R4L project has been published in the March/April 2007 issue of D-Lib Magazine (March 2007).
More ...
> New R4L repository architecture design implemented
The newly redesigned and improved R4L repository
can be previewed at r4l-dev.eprints.org (16th Feb. 2007).
More ...
> R4L in a RIN report
The R4L project has been mentioned in a
report
by the Research Information Network (5th Feb. 2007). More
...
> R4L to conduct a SPECTRa survey
R4L has agreed to conduct a survey on the
Use of Computers and the Internet in Chemistry Research
(February. 2007). More ...
> R4L Probity Service up and running
The service allows researchers to register
their results and findings, and can guarantee... (Sept.
2006). More ...
What the Project is doing?
This project will address the area of interactions between repositories
of primary research data, the laboratory environment in which they operate
and repositories of research publications into which they ultimately feed
(through documented interpretation and analysis of the results and in
explicit linking and citation of the data sets). It will develop prototype
services and tools to address the issues of working with, disseminating
and reporting on experimental data. In collaboration with scientific equipment
manufacturers the project will develop methods to make raw experimental
data available and richly annotated with metadata, as it is generated
in the laboratory. The possibilities for aggregating heterogeneous raw
experimental data from different sources and experiments, via effective
management of the repository for the laboratory, will also be explored
and prototype tools developed to enable, manipulate and derive reports
for publication purposes. It will also engage in discussions with publishers
and societies to determine anticipated requirements. More ...
Our sister site eprints.org
offers focal points for support services, community building, news and information on OAI-based
open-access institutional archives.
Project Information
What is R4L?
A research project investigating and developing digital data
and document repositories for laboratory-based science.
Who are the active Project Partners?
Southampton University, Association of Learned and Professional
Society Publishers.
What is the Timescale?
June 2005 - May 2007.
Funding?
R4L is funded by
within the programme Digital
Repositories.
Click here for more on R4L...
Contact Information
Email Dr Simon Coles,
Project Manager
OR PHONE:
Tel: +44 (0)23 8059 4479
Fax: +44 (0)23 8059 2865
OR POST TO:
R4L Project,
Intelligence, Agents, Multimedia Group,
Department of Electronics & Computer Science,
University of Southampton,
Highfield,
Southampton
SO17 1BJ, UK
Project Partners
The University of Southampton
The School of Electronics and Computer Science
The School of Chemistry
The Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers (ALPSP)
Rigaku MSC
(Laboratory Equipment Manufacturers)
Bruker axs
(Laboratory Equipment Manufacturers)
^TOP OF PAGE |
Contact Us | Intranet | ©2007 University
of Southampton
This site is produced and maintained by the R4L project, please contact the
Webmaster for site related comments
