REWARD Project
UCL Home
Prospective students
Current students
Staff
Give
skip to navigation.
skip to content.
REWARD Project
UCL Home
REWARD Project
REWARD Project
Home
About
Resources
Contact Us
A
A
A
REWARD is a six-month collaboration between the UCL
Institute of Archaeology, UCL Library
Services and Ubiquity Press,
funded by the JISC. The project is examining ways to
use familiar workflows to encourage the archiving of research data using the
UCL Discovery institutional repository. Researchers are being asked to manage
their data using the Digital Curation Centre’s DMP Online
tool, and then to make the data openly available in the
institutional repository via publishing a data paper in the Journal of Open
Archaeological Data (JOAD). This will
make the data citable and reuse trackable, important factors for the 2014 REF.
Five case studies will be followed during the course of the project in order to
assess the effectiveness of the systems involved.
News
REWARD 1st Workshop Report
Published:
Dec 20, 2011 3:44:05 PM
The REWARD project has started
Published:
Oct 27, 2011 3:14:46 PM
View all articles
Events
March 15th: Sharing Archaeological Data Workshop
View all articles
About REWARD
Resources
Contact Us
Background
There is
strong support for the archiving, dissemination and reuse of research data from
government, funding bodies, institutions and researchers. A recent study has
shown that researchers in particular highly value the resulting re-analysis of
existing data, its potential for future validation purposes, role in the
advancement of science, and potential for stimulating interdisciplinary
collaborations [1]. More efficient research through the reuse of data is
especially appealing in a tight funding environment.
About REWARD continued...
Project templates, presentations and posters are available for viewing and download on our resources page. Please make use of whatever you find here, and contact us if you have any questions.
Dr Anastasia SakellariadiREWARD Research Data ScientistEmail: a.sakellariadi@ubiquitypress.comBrian HoleREWARD Project ManagerEmail: brian.hole@ubiquitypress.com
Page last modified on 08 dec 11 10:12
Disclaimer
Freedom of Information
Accessibility
Privacy
Cookies
Slavery statement
Contact Us
University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT
Tel:
+44 (0)20 7679 2000
© UCL 1999–2017
