The Design Studio / SCAP DL
The Design Studio
log inhelp
WikiPages & Files
View
SCAP DL
Page history
last edited
by a.rowson@adm.leeds.ac.uk 3 years, 2 months ago
Standing Conference on Academic practice
The Standing Conference on Academic Practice (SCAP) is a national body supporting development of academic work as a
totality. SCAP members are responsible for academic development in
research-intensive institutions.
Since SCAP is about academic identity and role, digital literacies
are absolutely central. Our focus is on identifying ways staff can be
assisted to consider staff and students as part of the same digital
literacy environment, with students seen as junior researchers.
The SCAP Digital Literacies Project
The aim of this project is to promote effective practice in the area
of developing  digital literacies in SCAP member institutions.
Exploration of effective practice will be achieved firstly by a baseline
study of practice in SCAP members via structured telephone interviews, and secondly by monitoring
and disseminating the outcomes of the DDL programme, in particular the PRiDE and CASCADE projects, via the SCAP conferences in 2012 and 2013. In 2012 the conference will take place from 5th-6th July at the University of Warwick. The full conference programme
is now available.
The SCAP Digital Literacies Project will:
o   Conduct a baseline study focusing on the relationship between
members’ institutions’ approaches to staff and student digital
literacies. Read the telephone interview schedule which will inform our baseline study.
o   Collate and publish case studies and examples of effective practice in this area.
o   Maintain contact with all DDL projects, inviting PRiDE and CASCADE and possibly others to SCAP conferences. The conference meetings will
provide a space to review existing and possible practices and to build
networks around specific ideas to be taken forward.
o   Monitor resources that the projects produce and draw them in a systematic way to the attention of our members.
o   Publish briefings to members and a report that will outline the issues and explore effective practice. All briefings can be downloaded as pdf documents.  Briefing 1 (Feb 2012), Briefing 2 (April 2012) , Briefing 3, Briefing 4 (May 2012).
SCAP offers access to key staff in influential
research-intensive institutions, which with strong traditions of
academic autonomy and dispersed organisation, present a challenge to
uptake of innovative approaches. The DDL programme provides an excellent
opportunity to bring key developments to SCAP members and encourage
adoption by institutions.
Project and Resources
As of June 2012, the baseline report and analysis, resulting from the telephone interviews (see above), has now been published, and will be discussed by members at the SCAP 2012 conference in July.
It was clear from the baseline study that the responding institutions had an interest in engaing more strongly with digital literacy within the academic practice context.  At the SCAP 2012 conference we therefore shared and discussed the baseline report, but also invited presentations from two highly relevant Jisc Digital literacies projects: Cascade (University of Exeter) and PRiDE (University of Bath).
Learning from these projects we undertook an exercise aimed at exploring how to integrate Digital literacies in our academic practice activities within our institutions.  The outcomes of this exercise were summarised in a report.  The exercise may well be a useful resource for institutions considering including digital literacies in staff and educational development on their own.
Building on this, in 2013 we invited another presentation by PRiDE for our 2013 conference and explored how institutions had started to include digital literacy matters in their academic practice development.  Of particular interest was the academic interpretation of the VITAE Researcher Development  Framework undertaken by academics and professional colleagues within the PRiDE project at the University of Bath.  More work on this has already been done by VITAE itself:
A set of questions helped us identify progress and considerations.  In advance of the meeting we put out a call for case studies in the form of a 'press release' inviting participants to share with us their work on digitial literacies.
Three of these case studies set out the progress made in institutions on including digital literacies as part of academic practice development:
- University of Leeds
- University of Bath
- Kings College London
Project Leaders:
Paul Blackmore is
Professor of Higher Education and Director of King's Learning Institute
at King’s College London. He has responsibility for quality enhancement
across the College and is currently establishing a Centre for
Technology- Enhanced Learning to carry forward the College’s strategic
plan for learning technologies. Paul has successfully directed a large
number of funded development and research projects. He has recently
directed a major HEFCE-funded international study of curriculum change
in research-intensive institutions, a component of which dealt
extensively with the use of learning technologies. He was the director
of a three year TLTP project on technology enhanced learning in
research-led institutions.
Email: paul.blackmore@kcl.ac.uk
Gwen van der Velden is
Director of Learning and Teaching Enhancement at the University of Bath
where she has responsibility for Academic Staff Development, Academic
Student Support, e-Learning and Student Learning Experience and Quality.
One of the Digital Literacies projects recently funded by JISC is based
at Bath and led from within her team (Professionalism in the Digital
Environment (PriDE). Gwen is also one of the four original JISC Critical
Friends who developed the JISC CF resource base under the Benefits
Realisation programme, and has previously led TLTP projects.
Email: g.m.vandervelden@bath.ac.uk
Christopher Butcher leads
the L&T Team in the Staff & Departmental Development Unit at
the University of Leeds, and is responsible for their credit-bearing
courses and manages the University’s Teaching Fellowship scheme. He has
taught in the UK and abroad, has provided workshops and advice on
L&T in twenty HEIs in the UK and worldwide, and was awarded a
National Teaching Fellowship in 2005. His project income from JISC,
HEFCE & Leadership Foundation totals £240K over the last four years,
and he co-authored Designing Learning; from module outline to effective teaching, Routledge, 2006.
Email: c.w.butcher@adm.leeds.ac.uk
Project Officer:
Abi Rowson has taught Philosophy and Medical Ethics
at the University of Leeds and held the roles of Learning & Teaching
Enhancement Officer at Leeds and Manager of the Centre for the
Humanties and Health at King’s College London. She co-authored the book,
Studying Arts and Humanities, published by Palgrave in 2009.
Email: a.rowson@adm.leeds.ac.uk
SCAP DL
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
Tags:
JISC DDL, digital literacy, professional associations, professional bodies, SCAP
SCAP DL tags changed
SideBar
Home
About the Design Studio
Accessing the Design Studio
Developing Digital Literacies
Developing digital literacies in the curriculum
Developing digital literacies for digital scholars and researchers
Developing digital literacies for employability
Developing digital pioneers
Developing digitally literate institutions
Developing your digital literacies
Curriculum Change and Transformation
Curriculum Challenges
Curriculum Processess
Curriculum Technologies
Curriculum Design & Delivery programme
Curriculum Design Institutional Stories
Transforming Assessment & Feedback
Assessment & Feedback Programme
Assessment & Feedback Topics
Assessment & Feedback Tools and Resources
Embedding Benefits
About the Embedding Benefits programme
View All Tags
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
