Research support | IT Services
Skip to main content
Header shortcuts
Getting started Manage accounts Nexus email Service status IT rules Blogs
Social networking links
Subscribe to our RSS feed
Follow us on Twitter
Find us on Facebook
Find us on GitHub
University of Oxford
IT Services
delivering responsive, innovative IT across the University of Oxford
Search Google Appliance
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
Search within:
all
help
Contact the service desk View requests Visit the IT Help site
Top Nav
Home
What we do
I want to...
Services
About
News & events
Home >> What we do >> Research support
Research support
Research support
Browse our service catalogue to discover the tools and support available to help you manage your research.
Research Data Oxford
Advice and support to help researchers manage their data and comply with funding rules.
ARC (Advanced Research Computing)
High performance computing (HPC) and large data set processing available from IT Services.
IT Services provide key IT infrastructure to support academics (including postgraduates) across the University in planning, delivering and disseminating research.
We provide advice, support and guidance for academics across the University. We can help you think creatively about how IT can be used in your research, scope work packages for a funding proposal, and deliver IT-related project tasks.
We can help you to:
Organise, share and preserve research data, including using the Online Research Database Service
Design and scope web applications and websites to be built as part of a research project
Use the high performance computing service
Organise bespoke courses and training for a research group or academic unit
Complete the technical aspects of a funding proposal e.g. research data management plan
Make audio / video presentations, including filming talks, conferences and research impact videos, and publish via iTunes U and the University podcast site.
We provide specialist advice on a wide range of topics including: crowdsourcing and community collections, IP relating to educational resources and software, open source software sustainability, software selection, text encoding, analysis and digitisation, data visualisation and agent-based modelling, and using social media to promote your research.
We aim to provide a joined-up advice service, and so work closely with colleagues in the Bodleian Libraries, Research Services, and IT support staff in departments and colleges. We may also be able to help you find collaborators in academic departments.
News
Free research skills workshops for graduate students
Publication date:
Thursday, 15 December 2016 to Saturday, 21 January 2017
The Research Skills Toolkit runs in January 2017 – book your place now.
New service catalogue launched
Publication date:
Thursday, 01 December 2016
Making it easier for you to find the IT services you need.
Go-Pro goes live
Publication date:
Wednesday, 26 August 2015
New Research Services case management system goes live
Read more news for this topic
Related projects
Please visit the Research Support team project portfolio.
Related services
Service catalogue
Contact us
To arrange a meeting or ask a question please send an email to researchsupport@it.ox.ac.uk.
Blog
Trying Apereo OAE in Oxford
Apereo OAE (Open Academic Environment) is an online collaborative tool for universities. It sprang from development of the virtual learning environment Sakai, which is the solution underlying Oxford’s VLE instance WebLearn. OAE is a more free-form, peer-to-peer online environment that … Continue reading
Also on this website
IT Learning Centre coursesNSMS
Related websites
Research Support
Research Skills Toolkit
Research Data Oxford
University of Oxford podcasts
ORA-Data
Open Access Oxford
Online Research Database Service
Open Spires
ITLC online course booking system
Educational Media
Claros
British National Corpus (BNC)
Behaviour Composer
ARC
Service desk
13 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 6NN
tel: (+44) 1865 612345
Administrative address
Dartington House, University Offices, Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JD
Our offices
13 Banbury Road, Oxford OX2 6NN
tel: (+44) 1865 273200
Dartington House, University Offices, Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JD
tel: (+44) 1865 270202
23-38 Hythe Bridge Street, Oxford OX1 2EP
tel: (+44) 1865 270000
Gibson Building, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter, Woodstock Road, Oxford OX2 6GG
tel: (+44) 1865 270098
footer links
Accessibility
Jobs
Privacy
Cookies
Legal
Picture credits
Contact webmaster
Related sites
IT Staff Intranet
IT Learning Centre booking system
IT Services online shop
SharePoint
WebLearn
Footer text
Ucisa member
