SageCite
Skip to content
SageCite
Citing network models of disease and associated data.
Home
About
Blog
Demo
The Application Domain
Publisher Interviews
Dissemination
Deliverables
Related Resources
About
SageCite will develop and test a Citation Framework linking data, methods and publications. The domain of bio-informatics provides a case study, and the project builds on existing infrastructure and tools: myExperiment and the Sage Commons. Citations of complex network models of disease and associated data will be embedded in leading publications, exploring issues around the citation of data including the compound nature of datasets, description standards and identifiers. The project has international links with the Concept Web Alliance and Bio2RDF. The partners are UKOLN, the University of Manchester and the British Library (representing DataCite), with contributions from Nature Genetics and PLOS. The project is funded by JISC through the Managing Research Data programme.
The project will work through a number of workpackages comprising:
* Review and evaluation of options and approaches for data citation
* Understanding the requirements for citing large-scale network models of disease and compound research obejcts
* Demonstration of a citation-enabled workflow using a linked data approach
* Benefits mapping using the KRDS2 taxonomy
* Technical and policy implications of citation by leading publishers
* Dissemination across communities (bio-informatics and research and information communities)
The project was funded between August 2010 and July 2011.  The team members were Liz Lyon and Monica Duke at UKOLN, Carole Goble and Peter Li at the University of Manchester, Max Wilkinson and Tom Pollard at the British Library.  Our contact and main contributor at PLoS Computational Biology was editor Phil Bourne, and at Nature Genetics, editor Myles Axton.
Project Proposal
Recent Articles
Signing Off
EU Riding the wave report
Report on data sharing
Motivating the release of government data
Requirements for Data Citation: The Prequel
Requirements for Data Citation re-visited
The KRDS Benefits Evaluation Toolkit
Workflows from Sage Bionetworks.
Data Citation Principles, Harvard.
SageCite presentation at the Sage Bionetworks Congress
Blogroll
DataONE interns' blog
JISC MRD Programme
Sage News Forum
Science Online London Blog
Significant Science
Admin
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
In collaboration with
