SuperJournal Home Page
The SuperJournal Project
Home | Search | Demo | News | Feedback | Members
Only
SuperJournal is a research project in the eLib Programme studying the factors that will
make electronic journals successful.  The objective was to identify the features that
deliver real value, and to explore the implications with stakeholders in the publishing
process:  readers, authors, libraries, and publishers.  The research was
conducted over three years (1996-1998) and the project ended in December 1998.
The project developed an easy to use electronic journal application and made clusters
of journals available to university test sites via the World Wide Web. At the start of the
project readers were asked about their expectations for electronic journals.  For two
years their usage was recorded and analyzed.  At the end of the project, they were
asked to comment on what they did and didn't like about SuperJournal, and the features
they wanted in future electronic journals and services.  This Web site describes the
project and results.
Project Description
Project Partners
Journal Clusters
Plans and Progress Reports
Project Results
Conferences and Articles
Contacts
Committees
Members Only Pages
Starting in April 1999 the project results have been posted on the Web
site, including documents which describe the work itself,
how it was implemented, and what we learned from the experience. The project
is the subject of a book being prepared by the Project Director and Project
Manager.
As the project has ended, it is no longer possible for readers at the various test
sites to use the SuperJournal electronic journal application.
The Project would like to thank the publishers for licensing their journals for use in
the project, the librarians who promoted SuperJournal at their universities and encouraged
readers to use it, and the many users who participated in the research and generously
contributed their views on electronic journals.
Further Information
SuperJournal was funded by the Joint Information
Systems Committee (JISC) of the Higher Education Funding Councils, as part of its Electronic Libraries Programme (eLib).
For further information about SuperJournal, contact the Project Manager, Christine
Baldwin:
Phone: 01865-736850
Fax: 01865-736855
Post: Information Design & Management, Broom, Hinksey Hill, Oxford OX1 5BH
email: c.baldwin@dial.pipex.com
This web site is maintained by epub@manchester.ac.uk
Last modified: December 22, 1999
