UKRR Research Reserve
What is UKRR?
How does UKRR work?
News
Members' resources
FAQs
Contact UKRR
Introduction
The UK Research Reserve (UKRR) is a collaborative distributed national research
collection managed by a partnership between the Higher Education sector and the
British Library. It allows Higher Education libraries to de-duplicate their
journal holdings of a title if two copies are held by other UKRR members, ensuring
continued access to low-use journals, whilst allowing libraries to release
space to meet the changing needs of their users.
Phase One of UKRR showed the
effectiveness of creating a shared collection of low-use journals, with eight Higher
Education libraries releasing over 11,000 metres of shelving through coordinated
de-duplication.
UKRR is now in Phase Two, and is
continuing its work building a sustainable national research collection. Having
received funding from the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), it has the ambitious target of releasing 100 km of shelf space
by 2015.
Loading
Google Search
Google Search
Monograph Study Commissioned
The National Monograph Steering Group (of which UKRR is part) has commissioned Information Power Ltd to conduct a feasibility study on monographs, and has had an initial project meeting with Information Power.
Invitation to Tender
UKRR,
SCONUL and RLUK have issued a joint tender for a feasibility study on
monographs. More here.
LIBER 2016
UKRR
will present a poster entitled ‘UK Research Reserve – the journey of
de-duplication continues’ at LIBER 2016. More here.
Directors' Workshop
UKRR held a Directors' Workshop on the 1st of June 2016 to explore the future of UKRR and the potential for a type of UKRR for monographs. More here.
European Print Initiatives Collaboration (EPICo)
The formation of the working group EPICo is agreed between seven European print initiatives. More here.
Introduction
What our members say
UKRR members' area (requires password)
LARCH Login
Phase Three
