Integrating VOMS and PERMIS for Superior Secure Grid Management (VPMan)
Funded under the JISC
e-Infrastructure Programme
Project Start: 1 March 2007
Project End: 31 July 2008
Project Partners
University
of Kent
National
E-Science Centre at the University of Glasgow
National Grid
Service
Open Middleware Infrastructure
Institute UK (OMII-UK)
Project Objectives
Both VOMS
and PERMIS provide security
management infrastructures for Grids. Each has its strengths and weaknesses
and their combination will be a powerful solution to Grid security management
as described below. Consequently, the objectives of this project are to:
integrate VOMS and PERMIS, more specifically the VOMS user management and
attribute assignment function with the PERMIS policy based authorisation
decision function;
ensure they seamlessly inter-work with latest Grid technologies including
Globus
toolkit version 4 (GT4), the
Open
Middleware Infrastructure Institute UK (OMII-UK) software release and
Shibboleth;
validate the results in several representative major pilot applications
run by the National e-Science Centre (NeSC) at the University of Glasgow;
evaluate the combined software from user, administrator and Grid developer
perspectives;
integrate the combined infrastructure with the National
Grid Service (NGS) at SciTech
(formerly CCLRC);
distribute the integrated software as open source code as part of either
Globus Toolkit, or the OMII-UK Repository, or the US-NMI,
or a combination of them.
Outline Project Description
The project started by gathering information about the various authorisation
systems that are currently being used by grid systems, as well as gathering
information from current VOMS users. The results of the information gathering
are in the first project deliverable
D1.1 Requirements and Information Gathering (pdf).
The results of the VOMS users survey can be found in the third project
deliverable
D1.3 Analysis of VOMS Users
Survey Questionnaire (pdf)
The deliberations of the project team in determining the use cases to
be supported can be found in the second project deliverable
D1.2 Use cases to be supported (pdf).
The project then produced a design document describing how VOMS
and PERMIS will be integrated into GT4, OMII-UK, GT2/glite/LCAS. This
lead to the deliverable
D2.1 VOMS-PERMIS integration design document (pdf).Software Deliverables
As part of the project, we modified the PERMIS
Policy Editor and Wizard so that it is able to create VOMS policies for
grid resources. This led to the deliverableD3.1 A modified PERMIS Policy Editor and Wizard with
documentation and help files
which was delivered as the “PERMIS
Policy Editor, v5.0, 9 Oct. 2008D4.1 Beta software ready for validation and piloting.
We delivered the PERMIS/GT4 software to Glasgow in July 2007.
OMII/PERMIS software was never delivered to Glasgow for testing, but Glasgow
built a proof of concept test case showing how OMII-UK services (GridSAM) could
be protected using VOMS attributes directly.
D4.2 Preparation of test bed, services and portals
Glasgow built the test bed during 2007.
D5.1 A paper for an international grid conference
describing the piloting of the integrated VOMS-PERMIS software with GT4 and/or
OMII-UK.
R.O.
Sinnott, D.W.Chadwick, T. Doherty, D. Martin, A. Stell, G. Stewart, L. Su, J.
Watt. “Advanced Security for Virtual Organizations: The Pros and Cons of
Centralized vs Decentralized Security Models”. Proc. 8th IEEE International
Symposium on Cluster Computing and the Grid (CCGrid 2008). May 19-22, 2008,
Ecole Normale Superieure de Lyon, Lyon, France.
D5.2 A paper for an international grid conference
describing the piloting of the integrated authorization software utilizing
Shibboleth and multiple Grid middleware (GT4 and OMII-UK) including how user
single sign-on across a range of UK e-Science resources can be
supported with fine grained authorisation.
R.O. Sinnott, A. Asenov, C. Bayliss, C. Davenhall, T. Doherty, B.
Harbulot, M. Jones, D. Martin, C. Millar, G. Roy, S. Roy, G. Stewart, J. Watt.  “Integrating Security Solutions to Support
nanoCMOS Electronics Research”. IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and
Distributed Processing Systems with Applications, Sydney Australia, December
2008.
D5.3 Document describing the overall lessons learned in
supporting this infrastructure from a user, an administrator and a Grid
developer perspective (this includes managers of the NGS and VO administrators
wishing to utilize resources such as the NGS and end users of the NGS)
Unfortunately this was never delivered since
the final integrated software was never put into operation at the NGS.
D6.1 The integrated software packaged with GT4 and OMII-UK and
fully integrated into the NGS
1. The PERMIS/GT4/VOMS download
is available from
http://sec.cs.kent.ac.uk/permis/integrationProjects/GT.shtml and the actual software is athttp://sec.cs.kent.ac.uk/permis/private/gt4/permisAuthzGT4_5_1_0.zip
2. The OMII-AuthZ 1.0.0 is downloadable in source code form
from the OMII-UK website
http://www.omii.ac.uk/wiki/Downloads
D6.2. User, developer and administrator documentation for
the integrated VOMS-PERMIS package including support in a Shibboleth-enabled
environment, with guidance to Grid Operations Support Centre on practicalities
of usage.
1. The PERMIS/GT4/VOMS documentation is athttp://sec.cs.kent.ac.uk/permis/documents/PERMIS_Authorization_in_GT4.pdf
2.
The OMII-AuthZ 1.0.0 is downloadable in source code form from the
OMII-UK website
http://www.omii.ac.uk/wiki/Downloads.
D6.3 Final report to JISC
The software was validated in a series
of grid enabled applications that were developed at NeSC
in Glasgow, such as the nano-CMOS
project .
The original project plan can be downloaded from here(pdf).
The Completion Report to JISC can be downloaded here(as a pdf)..
Contacts
Professor
David Chadwick , University of KentProfessor Richard Sinnott, the NeSC, University of Glasgow
