The Homepage of Professor Ted Honderich
PROF. TED HONDERICH WEBSITE   18 January 2017
These
are a
philosopher's
pages. Writings by him are in them, (1) many on what consciousness is and
where it is, also on what is called mind and brain, (2) many on
right and wrong in societies, including the Principle of Humanity, (3) some
on determinism or explanationism and freedom, (4) a few on terrorism and
terrorist war, punishment, and (5) a variety of subjects -- for example
Russell's Theory of Descriptions, the worth of A. J. Ayer as
philosopher, Blackburn, Burge, Chalmers, Davidson, Habermas, Kenny,
MacIntyre, McGinn, Nagel, Parfit, Searle, Strawson, Williams -- and
such a scientist or two as Libet. Also (6) a speech or interview or two,
and (7) a
scandal in
and of Germany about Zionism and Neo-Zionism. Also (8) papers by others
on determinism and freedom.
One
commitment in all this, to which there is a good index,
is
to mainstream philosophy. That is not ownership of but it is greater
concentration than that of
science
on the logic of ordinary intelligence -- (i) clarity, usually analysis,
(ii) consistency and validity, (iii) completeness, (iv) generalness. In
short, thinking about facts rather than getting to them? Not to be
confused with formal or mathematical logic, which has not solved and
maybe has not advanced any philosophical problem. Mainstream philosophy, of course, is not pop philosophy.
Another
commitment
of these pages, about what is right, is indeed to that Principle
of Humanity: Take
all and only means to the end of getting people out of bad lives as
well defined.
There are also more bits and pieces, one on the two racial prejudices
of anti-semitism and semitism.
18 Jan 2017
A Book of Papers on Ted HonderichTo Come:
Out of the day of lectures mentioned below came the idea by Prof. Gregg Caruso of the State University of New York of a
collection to be published containing pieces by various philosophers on
Ted's philosophy in its three parts.
The arranged contributors on consciousness and mind are Noam Chomsky of MIT, Barbara Montero of CUNY, Barry Smith of the Institute of Philosophy, University of London, and Paul Snowdon of University College London.
Those on determinism or explanationism and freedom etc are Gregg Caruso of SUNY, Paul Russell of the University of British Columbia & the University of Gothenburg, Derk Pereboom of Cornell University, and Saul Smilansky of Haifa University..
Those on right and wrong, the Principle of Humanity, terrorism etc are Mary Warnock of Oxford University, Paul Gilbert of Hull University, Richard  Norman of Kent University, and Michael Neumann of Trent University. Saul Smilansky also considers this category as well as
that of determinism/explanationism and freedom.
Ted will make a short replies to each contributor.
Philosophy of Ted Honderich -- A Day's Lectures On It
Macmillan Hall, Senate House, University of London,
Malet Street, 9 Feb, 2-6.30 pm
Consciousness -- The Actualism Theory
Determinism/Explanationism and Freedom
Right and Wrong and Humanity and Terrorism and Terrorist War
The Royal Institute of Philosophy was pleased to announce a day
celebrating the three interdependent parts of the philosophy of Ted Honderich, Grote Professor
Emeritus of the Philosophy of Mind and Logic at University College London -- on
Consciousness and the Mind, Determinism and Freedom, and Right and Wrong
Including Terrorism. Among his many books are Actual Consciousness and
the forthcoming Your Being Conscious Is What? Where?; A Theory of Determinism: The Mind,
Neuroscience and Life-Hopes and How Free Are You?; After the
Terror and Humanity, Terrorism, Terrorist War. He is
also the author of many articles and the editor of The Oxford Companion to Philosophy and Philosophers of Our Times.
Five speakers considered one or more of the three parts of Ted's philosophy and he made responses -- all of which you can find online by clicking here.
Prof. Noam Chomsky. MIT, ‘Unconscious Mentality: Some
Speculations’
Prof. Gregg D. Caruso, SUNY, ‘Origination, Moral Responsibility,
Punishment, and Life-Hopes: Ted Honderich on Determinism and Freedom’
Prof. Tim Crane, Cambridge, ‘What is Actually in Consciousness? Comment
on Ted Honderich’s Actual Consciousness’
Prof. Paul Gilbert, Hull, ‘Ted Honderich and Terrorism’
Prof. Paul Snowdon, University College London, ‘Ted Honderich on
Consciousness’
Prof. Anthony O’Hear of The Royal Institute presided.
Philosophy of Ted Honderich Day -- Ted's Opening Handout on Three Subjects
[1] CONSCIOUSNESS -- THE ACTUALISM
THEORY
This, if it is a workplace rather than a final
theory or a so-called one, is indubitably a long way from those two main fairy tales
still told or remembered --
(1) Consciousness is just objectively or
scientifically physical stuff in your head, soggy grey matter as Colin McGinn
contemplated, anyway only neural networks, however generally functionally-related
within themselves or to other things.
(2) Consciousness is ghostly stuff, as in the old,
old Greek theory of mind-brain dualism, to go on misappropriating that
term for there being two things with one not physical and somewhere above the other.
Or the entirely similar ghostly stuff in the abstract functionalism of
very much cognitive science, tied to the more than chancey proposition of
multiple or variable realization -- that exactly
and precisely the same thought or hope or whatever can go with different brain states.
We do not have to wait for an Einstein of
consciousness. We do not have to be pessimistic about solving the problem right
now.
There is something we can start with. That is a
rich figurative database on
consciousness in the primary ordinary sense, derivable from the language of
philosophers, scientists and others. About 40 items, including their taking
being conscious in this sense as being the having of something, its being there, its being open, its being transparent in the sense of being clear straight-off, its not
being deduced, inferred, constructed or posited from something else, its
being given, its being right there, its somehow existing, being
what gives rise to philosophical talk of content
or object, its being present, its being presented, its being
what McGinn speaks of as vividly naked,
and so on. (To full
database below.)
The database can be summed up as initially
adequately identifying primary ordinary consciousness as being something's
being actual, as being actual consciousness.Patently this consciousness is
not all of the mental or the mind, where the latter is what
includes more than consciousness in this sense, say what enables me right now
to do what is different, think for a
moment of my age.
The figurative database, with some significant
help, including contemplation of various shortcomings of existing theories of
consciousness and thus the assembling of certain criteria for a good one, leads
somewhere, as in many different cases in the history of science. To an entirely
literal theory -- in this case Actualism.
The theory consists in answers as to (i) what
is actual in the three different sides of consciousness -- perceptual,
cognitive, affective -- and (ii) what being actual is. Of course it is a dualism in the sense that any sane
theory is -- it makes a difference between consciousness and the rest of what
there is.
In perceptual consciousness, what is actual is subjective physical worlds out there,
stages of them, often rooms. Worlds no more myriad in number than piles of
things in science. Their being actual is exactly their being subjectively physical. In cognitive and
affective consciousness, what is actual is representations-with-attitude,
in here, cranial. Their being actual is their being differently subjectively physical.
So, without any leap to theory or hurry to
generality about any of the physical, but pedestrianly -- here is a comparative
table of summation.  It shows the genus of all physicality, consisting of
two species and then two sub-species of the second species.  Thus samenesses
and differences between three things.
PHYSICALITY
/
\
/
\
SUBJECTIVE
PHYSICALITY
/
/                            \
/
/                                 \
OBJECTIVE
PHYSICAL WORLD
SUBJECTIVE
PHYSICAL
WORLDS:
Perceptual Consciousness
SUBJECTIVE
PHYSICAL
REPRESENTATIONS: Cognitive and Affective
Consciousness
ITS PHYSICALITY
THEIR PHYSICALITY
THEIR PHYSICALITY
1
in the
inventory of science
in the
inventory of science
in the
inventory of science
2
open to
the scientific method
open to
the scientific method
open to
the scientific method
3
within
space and time
within
space and time
within
space and time
4
in
particular lawful connections
in
particular lawful connections
in
particular lawful connections
5
in
categorial lawful connections
in
categorial lawful connections, including those dependency-relations with (a)
the objective physical world and (b) the conscious thing as neural
in
categorial lawful connections, including those dependency-relations with (a)
the objective physical world and (b) the conscious thing as neural.
6
a matter
of macroworld perception but microworld deduction
dependent
subjective physical worlds constitutive of macroworld perception
not
perceived, but dependent importantly on macroworld perception
7
more
than one point of view with macroworld
more
than one point of view with perception
no
point of view at all
8
different
from different points of view
different
from different points of view
no
differences from points of view
9
primary
and secondary properties, whatever they are
primary
and secondary properties despite (5b) above?
no
primary and secondary properties at all
ITS OBJECTIVITY
THEIR SUBJECTIVITY
THEIR SUBJECTIVITY
10
separate
from consciousness
not
separate from consciousness
not
separate from consciousness
11
public
private
private
12
common
access
some
privileged access
some
privileged access
13
truth
and logic, more subject to?
truth
and logic, less subject to?
truth
and logic, still less subject to?
14
open to
the scientific method
open to
the scientific method despite doubt
open to
the scientific method, despite doubt
15
includes
no self or unity or other such inner fact of subjectivity inconsistent with any
of the above properties of the objective physical world
each
subjective physical world is one element in an individuality that is a unique
and large unity of lawful and conceptual dependencies including the above
dependency-relations of subjective physicality
each
representation is one element in an individuality that is a unique and large
unity of lawful and conceptual dependencies including the above dependency
relations of subective physicality
16
hesitation
about whether objective physicality includes consciousness
no
significant hesitation about taking the above subjective physicality as being
that of actual perceptual consciousness
no
significant hesitation about taking this subjective physicality as being the
nature of actual cognitive and affective consciousness
In short, perceptual
consciousness does indeed consist in certain dependent worlds out there, not
representations of any kind whatever, whatever
registration-without-representation there may be of the objective physical
world on a perceiver. Cognitive and affective consciousness, however, are
representations-with-attitude in here -- the attitudes having to do respectively
with truth or with good.
None of ancient or
contemporary ghostly stuff  in this story. Or sense data or 'mental paint',
or the vagueness of 'content', or something discernible but transparent, or a
theatre of the mind with a spotlight, let alone the behaviourism from which Chomsky
awakened several whole professions and their fans, or physical functionalism on
its own as against being a possible component in theory. Or in this story of
perceptual consciousness itself any vulnerability to the tired objections from
illusion and hallucination. Or any representions elsewhere in the wider category
of the mental. Nor in Actualism is there the elusiveness of talk of
phenomenality, let alone the circularity of so much thinking on consciousness,
such as it consisting in what it's like to be something. Or my own old Union
Theory of interdependent effects. Or Galen Strawson's breathtaking revival of
the aspectual theory of panpsychism. Nor entities of the all-inclusive, blanketing
and flattening previous contemporary externalisms -- meanings or individuators
or whatever, theories seemingly advanced of all
of perceptual, cognitive and affective consciousness -- those of Hilary Putnam,
Tyler Burge, Andy Clark, and Alva Noe.
Of course there are
questions about Actualism. Say Chomsky's implied and unsettling one about
whether we can have an adequate conception of the physical at all despite
science not having provided one since about as far back as Newton. And of
course questions about the relation of consciousness to the rest of the mental,
thus the relation of Actualism to mentalism
in a very general sense -- or in Chomsky's particular sense. A question too of
whether Actualism will defeat the fortress of intentionality or aboutness as
the nature of all consciousness, standing since the mediaevals and Brentano in
the 19th Century, so newly fortified by Tim Crane. And is Actualism the very
nerve or strength of Searle's lovely and celebrated Chinese Room argument
against computerism about consciousness?
Is ordinary
conscousness, consciousness in the primary ordinary sense, actual
consciousness, the right subject of consciousness? There isn't one right
subject. But this is the necessary
one. All others depend on the primary ordinary sense. They depend on a hold on
actual consciousness.
[2] DETERMINISM / EXPLANATIONISM
AND FREEDOM
An old and doubted
and condescended-to story is true. All spatio-temporal events or happenings or
states of whatever extent or duration without exception, everything taking up some space and time, as distinct from
anything else, say '2=2=' and '4', merely logically, conceptally, linguistically,
mathematically, abstractly, or theoretically connected items or stages, maybe bits of
Quantum Theory, are effects or lawful correlates. Each thing that happens or lasts for a while has a fundamental explanation.
I.e.,
to clarify this explanatory connection, each event or whatever is such
that if
or given a particular causal or other lawful circumstance or set of
conditions,
whatever else were also happening, the event or whatever would still
have
occurred. Causation and lawful connection in sum, no mystery or
problem, is as
plain as that strong or whatever-else conditional statement, that piece
of plain English. When you hit the egg on the marble floor with the
hammer on the marble etc a minute ago, whatever else had been true, it
would still have  broken.
Explanationism, as I
myself am now more inclined to call it, in order to avoid the misleading heavy connotations
of 'determinism',  shared with
'fatalism' and 'predestination', is at the very least a reasonable assumption, in fact the gravamen of
naturalism and empiricism -- those fundamental recommendations of science. Despite our supposedly revealing personal
'could-have-done-otherwise' experiences just after having decided or acted.
Also despite wonderful
interpretations or understandings
of the mathematics of Quantum Theory, pieces of weak philosophy rightly
spoken of
as weird etc. About as hopeless as Schrodinger's cat, which, according
to that
thought-experiment in aid of an interpretation, is both alive and dead
until it is observed. Also the impertinent nonsense, indeed tripe, that
Einstein was a determinist because  he was neurotic and needed to
have a kind of reassurance about the world or God or something.
Also,
in the absence
of real chance or randonment in roulette wheels or levitating spoons at
breakfast or any such
wonders etc anywhere, it is necessary, if we turn to the brain or
whatever, to suppose
either that even if there were indeterminism down below in it, it
doesn't translate upward to where it would count -- say the neurons.
Does anybody at all say that neurons, neural activity, what
neuroscience knows about, isn't cause and effect or any lawfulness?
Just final and forever  mystery?
Something else, in this case something philosophical, is also up the spout. The historical
doctrines of traditional Compatibilism and Incompatibilism about determinism
and freedom have been falsified, demonstrably so. I claim a little old credit there -- have a look at How Free Are You? or the heavy tome from which it comes, A Theory of Determinism: The Mind, Neuroscience, and Life-Hopes. Hume
was wrong in taking our freedom as we understand it to be compatible or consistent with
causation. Kant was just as wrong in taking our freedom as we understand it to be
inconsistent with causation.
This is the case
simply since in our conceiving, indeed our ordinary thinking and feeling, as distinct from fact, there is both
(1) incompatible freedom (origination, free will, lawless and
unexplainable control, funny responsibility) and also (2) compatible
freedom (voluntariness -- choice and
action according to desire, thinking and doing out of embraced
desires).
Again, we have the idea or anyway the temptation towards the idea (1)
of choices and decisions that in the end somehow come from nowhere at
all -- everything could have been the same and they might not have
happened -- and (2) not being in jail, not facing a man with a gun, or
your inner desire to be like everybody else not overwhelmed by the
neurotic compulsion to wash your hands 12 times a day.
It's
obvious to your ordinary fifth former in my experience, most punters in
Hay-on-Wye, if not to every neuroscienstist, that there not just one
idea of freedom that we have, but the two. There is not one idea --which of course would have to be either inconsistent or not with something else. We've got two, one consistent and one inconsistent.
In place of Compatibilism and Incompatibilism, all that past, there is a related
but alternative true-enough story called Attitudinism.
In short the real problem of
determinism has been that of accomodating ourselves to the frustration of
certain attitudes -- at bottom certain desires, stuff of Affective
Consciousness rather than Cognitive or Percetual. We run up against a conviction owed to reflecting on our own
past lives. That conviction is that an attitude akin to the one tied to
Indeterminism, that way of holding yourself lawlessly morally responsible, has some
or other basis despite the truth of determinism. We need to look for a
radical escape here, get out of cart tracks that have never got anywhere, be nearly
as brave as the daredevil interpreters of the mathematics of Quantum Theory, but stay
with our feet on earth. Even if we need to find a solution as radical here as Actualism is with
the problem of perceptual consciousness. We need what I call an escape from dismay and
intransigence about our lives into an attiutude you can call affirmation.
More particularly,
such astute students as Bob Kane of free will or origination or inexplicable
responsibility -- see his two vols called The Oxford Handbook of Free Will and The Oxford Handbook of Free Will revised edition -- have in fact allowed that in wanting the thing, we are in fact wanting something
you can say is real, a certain human standing. We are wanting to be
above nature or at least above the rest of nature. Not like the trees and the chairs.
We
won't get this
elevation, according to me, in more free will cogitation about funny
powers, new
randomness, God's gift, wonderful metaphysics, 'could have done
otherwise' rewritten, neuroscience in the person of Libet having shown
the mind is after the brain
in time and then turning out to show it's before it, thereby saving
free will. We won't get our elevation either, say, by what is to me the
absurd argument
that for determinism there is no sense in which we are in control when we
decide to cross the street because we aren't in control of a train of past
causes. See Wikipedia. We need something that will have to be very different.
The Actualism theory
of consciousness provides this uniquely, as well as truth to our irrepressible
conviction of subjectivity. In brief, very brief, it provides it as follows.
Each of us has the
stages of a subjective physical world dependent on us as well as
dependent on the objective physical world. You have such a room dependent on you right now.To be rhetorical, therefore, each of us is a
little god, however petty. Still more seriously, really and absolutely seriously, each
of us is lawful unity of perceptual, cognitive and affective consciousness that
is also an individuality and a personal identity. That reality known to you,
you could say lived in, and no inner entity, no such self, no spook, is the
referent of your 'I', your use of the first-person pronoun.
Surely a case of a
little concentrated thought about one's self doing the trick?
[3] RIGHT AND WRONG, INCLUDING HUMANITY, TERRORISM,
TERRORIST WAR
There is a morality
to which we are all committed, by two things, the first being its accord with
the fact of our Affective Consciousness. More particularly with the fact of the
great goods of our lives, the objects of what I count as our six great desires.
Which great goods issue in each of us making and being certain of a moral judgements about each of us as distinct
from anyone else having them, a seeming moral personal necessity. I have a
claim to food, to be able to sleep....
The second thing,
which must cut against this self-interest, is our minimal rationality, just the
fact of our having reasons, including moral reasons necessarily as
general as any other reasons. So we are committed, despite our disregarding it,
anyway most of us,  to a certain morality
of good consequences for all by our individual human nature. This is a kind of
moral truth, the fundamental moral truth.
More fully, we all desire (1) the great
good of going on existing, including a personal world going on longer.
(2) We want a kind of existence that has to do with our bodies -- not to
be in pain, etc. (3) We want particular freedoms and powers. We do not
want to be coerced by various personal circumstances arranged by others,
subjected to compulsion, bullied, unable to run our own lives, weakened. (4) We
want goods of relationship to those around us, closer and
wider relationship. (5)  Also respect and self-respect. (6)
And the goods of culture, starting with being able to read.. All of
us want at least some of the latter cutural goods. Many of us want the practice
and reassurance of a religion, or the custom of a people, or a homeland, a real
rather than a pretended one.
A bad life is to be defined
in terms of the deprivation of the six great goods.
The Principle of Humanity then is simply
that the right or justified thing as distinct from others -- the right intention,
action, practice, punishment, struggle, institution, government, body of law, society,
or possible world -- is the one that according to the best judgement and
information is the rational means in the sense of being effective and not
self-defeating with respect to the end of getting and keeping people in general
out of the bad lives -- in well-being instead.
Of course a consequentialism as against
the veils and paint-jobs over and on self-concern in which most morality
consists. And of course not the nonsense that the end justifies the means, by
the way, but the truth that the end and the means justify the means.
To the Principle of Humanity are
attached certain policies, several fundamental ones having to do with
redistribution of the means to well-being, starting with redistribution from
possessors who in fact would not be significantly affected by the transfers. Another
having to do with the necessity of escape from restraining conventionality in
expression, societally-based constraint against moral truth. Less academic
'balance', less parliamentary language, less moderateness, less respect, less
of a lot more.
The Principle of Humanity preceded but
is consonant with and takes some support from recent humanitarian causes
including armed interventions and pretences of them. It is the principle of the
Left in politics when the Left is true to itself. The principle is superior to
a slurry of attitudes in politics, international relations and conflict. E.g.
talk, cant, ideology etc of deserts, equality, legality, our oligarchic and not
merely hierarchic democracy, free enterprise, OK omissions as against terrible acts
with just the same effects, moniedness in our societies, spurious sectional
freedoms, 'our values', loosenesses about 'the just war', political traditions
such as conservatism, liberalism, economism, etc.
All that is a mess, part of our own
lower form of life. It raises the question of what to do.
With respect to terrorism as tolerably defined, the
moral law that is the Principle of Humanity issues explicitly and arguably, for
just one example, in a moral right for the Palestinians in what is known
as their terrorism against neo-Zionism as distinct from Zionism. It issues of
course in such a right as is also unfailingly claimed inexplicitly but in
effect exactly by neo-Zionism itself, entirely wrongly, in its terrorism
against the Palestinians, in its taking of the last one fifth of the land or
liberty of the indigenous people of Palestine. A terrorism arguably different,
by the way, from that of Zionism itself in 1948.
The Principle of Humanity also condemns terrorist
war, including our war on Iraq, and certainly the war criminals and mass
murderers Blair and Bush. It is respectable in not respecting wretched little
evasions. In eschewing the pretence of fact, even by courts, the Principle of
Humanity condemns the ongoing ethnic cleansing of neo-Zionism and the attack on
and invasion of Gaza in 2015 by its army, arguably terrorist war at least more
to be condemned than any concerted action of Palestinians at any time.
With respect to Islamic State, in Syria and Iraq,
what is necessary for us is not only to act against barbarism and primitivism
but to keep in mind our own civilized recent killing of a million or so more
people than the barbarians.
Such a proper orientation, rational moral insecurity,
denial of self-sanctification, must issue in real negotiation, negotiation that
will give up on things -- negotiation mindful of our Sykes-Picot self-interested
drawing of lines in the sand after World War 1, and all our subsequent
exploitation and toleration of exploitation of peoples, and our ideology and
our realpolitik and our terrorist air war in destruction of the society of
Libya, and letting refugees/migrants drown in the Mediterranean, children among
them, getting only the attention of photographers.
Only an inane political class, notably in England
the morally stupid leaders of the party called New Labour, joining into the
affective consciousness of Conservatism only minimally cognitive, only those
speechifying violators of the tradition of democratic socialism, and in America
uneducated and perhaps ineducable and hence unawakened but dreaming members of
the Democratic Party -- only these could pretend otherwise, that there is
nothing to be said on and for the other side.
The few signal exceptions in politics at this
moment (12 February 2016) are of course the English and American Corbyn and Sanders. There is some
hope there.
HAY-ON-WYE 2016 FESTIVAL   TWO LECTURE AUDIENCE HANDOUTS
FINDING CONSCIOUSNESS
Our subject is what it is to be
conscious -- what it is for you to be conscious right now. In my typical
philosopher's hopeful, confident and proud answer, there are three impulses,
ideas and kinds of theory as to the right answer.
One ancient one still tempting such neuroscientists
as Dave Chalmers is Dualism: that your
consciousness is something non-physical, different in kind from your physical
brain. Abstract Functionalism, owned
by such as Ned Block, is all too close to it. That is to the effect that your conscious
states and events are causes and effects somehow floating above your brain. All
that is good in making consciousness different,
which everybody knows, and a disaster in making it non-causal, which everybody also knows it is except Australian
epiphenomenalists.
The commonest inclination in
neuroscience and the like, I take it, is Physicalism.
It is that your being conscious right now is a state or event of your
objectively or scientifically physical brain. That is good in making
consciousness causal, which we bloody
know it is, but a disaster in making it just the same in fundamental nature as
the chair under you or your toenails
The third theory is Actualism, which
is what you and I believe. It starts uniquely by getting an adequate initial
clarification of what we're talking about, consciousness -- before getting to a
theory, an analytic account of its nature.
There's a database here, collected from the language of a lot of philosophers
and the rest of the world, not just a philosopher's bright idea on Monday
morning, or a neuroscientist's thought when she's off work on Sunday.
The database, by way of a descriptive
label, is that being conscious is something's
being actual.  That label is
metaphorical or figurative,  just like
what has issued in a lot or even most science on everything. It results in two
questions that a good theory, of course perfectly literal, will answer. What's actual? What's its being
actual?
Just as good as starting with a
database, there's what we all know, that there's a big difference between
consciousness in seeing, consciousness in any kind of perception, and
consciousness that is just thinking and consciousness that is just wanting.
Perceptual, cognitive, and affective consciousness.
What
is actual with your perceptual consciousness in seeing the room you're in right
now is a bloody room. Notice I said a,
not the. Nothing else. Absolutely no
sign, image, representation or anything of the sort. You know the difference
between what's a sign o image and what isn't. So do I. A picture that is up on
a wall is an image, but a room isn't.
What's
actual with you thinking a thought about consciousness, or your wanting to be
somewhere else, however, is exactly a
representation -- with an attitude attached to it related somehow to truth or
to something like what's good.
And what is it for the room or the
representation to be actual? It's for
it to be physical, but subjectively rather than objectively physical.
Physicality in general divides into the two big categories --objecive and
subjective.
What is it for the room to be subjectively physical? It's to be out
there in space with a lot of other properties, 16 I think, nothing like anything
behind your forehead, and for it to be lawfully dependent -- not exactly
causally dependent but related to that -- on both the objective room out there
and also on your brain.
And an idea or hope of yours,
cognitive or affective consciousness, is differently subjectively physical. It is an aboutness as we can say, just as a
room is a room, and it is subjectively physical in having a lot of properties
related to those of the room, and being dependent on the rest of you -- on you
neurally, also known as the personal identity that is you.
It's all written down in a paperback book
out more or less today. Get it. Join the future before it gets here. Stuff
boring dualism and abstract functionalism. Stuff boring scientific or objective
physicalism. If you want to join the future still cheaper, go to the T.H. website.
FREEDOM IN FLAMES
Audience
handout that didn't get  handed  out -- reasonably enough
since meeting was a panel discussion with Barry Smith, Susana
Martinez-Conde, and the chairman Michael  Crick.
A condescended-to
story is true. All apatio-temporaral events or happenings or states, as
distinct from anything else, say merely logically, conceptally, linguistically,
mathematically or theoretically connected items or stages, maybe bits of bloody
Quantum Theory, are effects or lawful correlates. Each has a fundamental explanation.
I.e. each is such that if or given a particular causal or other lawful circumstance
or set of conditions, whatever else were also happening, the event or whatever
would still have occurred.
Explanationism, as I
myself am now more inclined to call it, in order to avoid the misleading heavy
connotations of 'determinism',  shared with 'fatalism', maybe 'predestination', is at least a
reasonable assumption, in fact the gravamen of naturalism and empiricism.
Despite our supposedly revealing personal 'could-have-done-otherwise'
experiences after having decided or  acted. Also despite wonderful
interpretations of the mathematics of Quantum Theory, rightly spoken of
as weird etc., about as hopeless as Schrodinger's cat, which, according to that
thought-experiment, is both alive and dead until it is observed.
Also,
in the absence
of real chance in roulette wheels or levitating spoons at breakfast or
water that doesn't freeze no matter the temperature, any such
wonders etc, it is necessary, if we turn to the brain or whatever, to
suppose
either that there isn't indeterminism down below in it or around it. Or
that if
there is, mad idea as that is, it doesn't translate upward to where it
would count.
In fact explanationism as against real chance is simply the proposition for which there is more evidence than for any
other general proposition about the world and our existence. All of
science except the cooky interpretation of the mathematics of Quantum
Theory is solid for explanationism. The evidence is overwhelming, and
that it is not seen to be must be owed to some 'non-rational' cause. At
bottom it must be owed somehow to desire or desires, interest or
interests in that sense. It must be owed to something, indeed, in which
politics in a general sense has a part. It is my view, anyway
speculation, that it is owed to a very general tradition that can have
the name of being conservatism.-- the ruling ttradition that has as its basis the principle of desert,
whatever that principle comes to. If it comes to nothing, then
conservatism is unique among political traditions that has no principle
to justify the self-interest that it shares with the rest of us.
The two big historical
doctrines, that explanationism is compatible with freedom and that it is not, are
up the spout. This is the case simply since in our conceiving, as distinct from
fact, there is both incompatible freedom (origination, free will,
lawless and unexplainable control and responsibility) and also compatible
freedom (voluntariness -- choice and action according to desire, embraced
desires, etc, and thus quite unfated). There is not one idea
--which of course would have to be  either inconsistent or not with
something else.
The
short story for the subject of 'Freedom in Flames', then, if that is
meant to convey the proposition that explanationism is true and so
there isn't freedom,
There is a related
but alternative true-enough story called Attitudinism.
The real problem of
determinism has been  that of accomodating ourselves to the frustration of
certain attitudes -- at bottom certain desires, stuff of Affective
Consciousness. We run up against a conviction owed to reflecting on our own
past lives. That conviction is that an attitude akin to the one tied to
Indeterminism, that way of holding yourself lawlessly morally responsible, has some
or other basis despite the truth of determinism. More particularly,
such astute students as Bob Kane of free will or origination or inexplicable
responsibility have in fact allowed that in wanting it, we are in fact wanting
something you can say is real, a certain human standing. We are
wanting to be above nature or at least above the rest of nature.
We won't get this
elevation, according to me, in more cogitation about funny powers, new
randomness, God's gift, neuroscience showing the mind is after the brain then
turning out to show it's before it, or what is to me the absurd argument that
for determinism there is no sense in which we are in control when we decide to
cross the street because we aren't in control of a train of past causes. See
Wikipedia. We need something that will have to be very different.
The Actualism theory
of consciousness provides this uniquely, as well as truth to our irrepressible
conviction of subjectivity -- as follows.
Each of us has the
stages of a subjective physical world out there -- not a damned image -- dependent
on us as well as dependent on the objective physical world. To
be rhetorical, each of us is a god, however petty. Still more seriously, really
and absolutely seriously, each of us is lawful unity of perceptual, cognitive
and affective consciousness that is also an individuality and a personal
identity. That reality known to you, you could say lived in, and no inner
entity, no such self, no spook, is the referent of your 'I', your use of the
first-person pronoun. Surely a case of a little concentrated thought about
one's self doing the trick of giving us some human standing
There's more on the website with my name on it. And How Free
Are You? is the precis-book of A
Theory of Determinism: The Mind, Neuroscience, and Life Hopes.
HAY-ON-WYE  2015  FESTIVAL    RECOLLECTION OF AN EVENT:
Humanity,
Conservatism, David Aaronovitch, Edwina Currie.Ted Honderich
Wrongly not deferential to fellow panellists? No, about right.
PHILOSOPHERS OF OUR TIMES
An introductory lecture prompted by the book of that title below to the Edinburgh Book Festival, by Ted Honderich. Not
as worthwhile as the lectures by others in the book of that title.
Accessible though.
A NEW BOOKACTUAL CONSCIOUSNESS
Oxford University Press
From the jacket of the paperback edition:
‘I admire Honderich’s insightful self-reflective re-examination of the facts of consciousness
as he perceives them. That Honderich’s discussion of actual consciousness opens so many
avenues for philosophical exploration is the measure of its success and likely long-lasting
contribution to the study and understanding of consciousness. The book is highly
recommended for its topic, approach and new perspectives on the challenging problem
of adequately understanding consciousness in a scientific philosophy of mind. For those
with minimal objection to countenancing as many actualities as there are perceiving minds,
then the subjective actuality of consciousness may have found an ideal situation in
Honderich’s theory of actual consciousness.’
Dale Jacquette, Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews
‘Honderich’s thought in Actual Consciousness is as always entirely accessible . . . For its genre
this is an unusual book, not least, though engagingly, for the virtually “actual” presence of
its author on every page. Honderich’s checklists and their interrelations should provide
themes for many seminars to come.’ Alastair Hannay, Philosophy
‘This audacious venture should certainly be praised . . . good philosophy presses readers to
think for themselves, and Actual Consciousness gives us much food for thought.’
Roberta Locatelli, Times Higher Education
‘Oddly engaging . . . a good start for a theory of consciousness, and his approach makes
sense of what most people assume when they take the reality of their experience
for granted.’ Janna Thompson, Australian Book Review
‘Meticulously researched and extensively cited.’ The Guardian
Ted Honderich is Grote Professor Emeritus of the Philosophy of Mind and Logic at
University College London and visiting professor at Yale and the CUNY Graduate Centre.
He has lived in London for most of his life, and lectured in much of Europe and the East.
Cover image: The Woman in Blue, 1874, by Jean Baptiste Camille Corot.
Louvre, Paris, France/Giraudon/The Bridgeman Art Library
Author's sketch / very brief recollection of Actual Consciousness:
To understand what it is to be
conscious, don’t start with any of five leading philosophical ideas --
qualia,
what it’s like to be something, traditional subjectivity,
intentionality, phenomenality, or
any bundle of them. Start with a large figurative database. It leads to
ordinary
consciousness in the primary or core sense being initially adequately
clarified, which
kind of clarification is essential to inquiry and real agreement and
disagreement. This consciousness, speaking as figuratively, is something's
being actual.
The resulting wholly literal and explicit theory of consciousness, Actualism, first is that with consciousness in perceiving, what is actual
is a spatio-temporal
piece or stage out there of a physical world, usually a room, certainly not a room in a head. Not sense
data, any other representations, a
self, functional or cognitive-science relations, some constitution or structure of
consciousness, or whatever else from the histories of philosophy and
science. No matter what roles such things
or related ones play in the associated unconscious mentality. With thinking and with wanting as
against perceiving, what is actual, to be briefer than brief, is only representations-with-attitudes.
Being actual, in all cases, is being subjectively physical, differently so with perceptual
consciousness as against each of cognitive and affective consciousness.
No representationism by itself, and not the representationism in Actualism, is a sufficient account of cognitive and
affective consciousness. Representations being actual have to be in a sufficient account.The
subjectively physical as a whole, its parts being open to full and
explicit characterization, no gesturing, is one great category of all
physicality, the
other being objective physicality.
Actualism, right or wrong, is therefore a wholly different  physicalism from predecessors. It
is different
too in being partly an externalism and partly an internalism or
cranialism. It deals
exclusively with the prime subject with respect to the philosophy and
science of mind, the necessary subject. It is argued to satisfy assembled criteria
better than any competing theory. It denies absolutely any really unique mystery about mind.
It claims to explain
the fact of subjectivity fully, which is essential to any theory of consciousness, only partly by having a real physical world
dependent not only on
the objective physical world but also on you neurally. Despite
being
persistently worked out, is it also a programme? It may be
philosophically as well as scientifically fertile. Certainly it is
wholly consistent with, and respects, and registers the past progress of
the science of consciousness. It is a full partner to science, as science is to it.
First Reviews
Long review by Alastair Hannay, in Philosophy
Long Review by Dale Jacquette, Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews
Review by Roberta Locatelli, in Times Higher Education
Review by Janna Thompson, in Australian Book Review
More stuff on or from Actual Consciousness
Another author summary of Actual Consciousness
Actual Consciousness -- the database
Author talk, launch partyOn
Why Actual Consciousness is Wholly a Subject for More Science -- and on
Some Other Relations Between Philosophy and Science With Respect to
Actual ConsciousnessLecture -- Actual Consciousness: Database,
Physicalities, Theory, Criteria, No Unique MysteryLecture audience handout
Lecture UCL undergraduate Philosophy Society handout / Powerpoint
Actual Consciousness on Twitter
Oxford University Press Catalogue
Author's comments on 2006 papers by others on his earlier stuff that issued in Actual Consciousness --- papers by Harold
Brown, Tim Crane, James Garvey, Stephen Law, E.J. Lowe, Derek
Matravers, Paul Noordhof, Ingmar Persson, Stephen Priest, Barry Smith,
Paul Snowdon. In Radical Externalism: Honderich's Theory of
Consciousness Discussed, edited by Anthony Freeman, and also Journal of Consciousness Studies, 2006.
A SECOND NEW BOOK PHILOSOPHERS OF OUR TIMESRoyal Institute of Philosophy Annual LecturesOxford University Press
The
17 lectures in this volume are in five groups, as listed just
below, about (i) the philosophy of mind, (ii) value, (iii) the mixed
bag of free will, personal identity and religion, (iv) political and
social philosophy, and (v) philosophy itself. They are preceded by
brief
introductory
summaries by the chairman of all the lectures, Prof. Honderich. Turn if
you wish to the general introduction to
the volume. Turn too if
you wish to the introductory summaries of the lectures listed below.
--------------------------------------------Thomas Nagel, Conceiving the
Impossible and the Mind-Body Problem Ted Honderich introductory summary
Peter Strawson, Perception and Its
Objects introductory summaryTyler Burge, Perception: Where Mind
Begins?introductory summaryJerry Fodor, The Revenge of the
Given: Mental Representation Without Conceptualization introductory summary
Ned Block, Attention and Mental
Paint introductory summary
John McDowell, Intention in Action  introductory summary
-----------------------------------------------------------
Christine Korsgaard, On Having a
Good   introductory summaryTim Scanlon, Reasons Fundamentalism   introductory summarySimon Blackburn, The Sovereignty of
Reason  introductory summaryMary Warnock, What Is Natural and
Should We Care About It? introductory summary
-------------------------------------------------------------
John Searle, Freedom of the Will as
a Problem in Neurobiology  introductory summary
Derek Parfit, We Are Not Human
Beings  introductory summaryAnthony Kenny, Knowledge, Belief and
Faith: Is Religion Really the Root of All Evil?  introductory summary
------------------------------------------Noam Chomsky, Simple Truths, Hard
Choices: Some Thoughts on Terror, Justice, and Self-Defence  introductory summary
Alasdair MacIntyre, Social
Structures and Their Threats to Moral Agency  introductory summary
Jurgen Habermas, Religious
Tolerance: The Pacemaker for Cultural Rights  introductory summary
---------------------------------------------------------
Bernard Williams, Philosophy as a
Humanist Discipline  introductory summary
David Chalmers, On the Limits of
Philosophical Progress introductory summary
First newspaper review of Philosophers of Our Times: http://tinyurl.com/q4zmmqw
FOR EVERYTHING ON THIS WEBSITE, DO HAVE A LOOK THROUGH THE FULL INDEX. BUT HERE IS ANOTHER SURVEY of the
larger and smaller categories of papers, chapters, lectures,
reviews, a speech or
two, some television and other media and so on on.
1. Consciousness, its sides, the
mind, functionalism and cognitive science, Davidson's Anomalous
Monism,
mental causation,
mind-brain dualism,
traditional physicalism, Roland Penrose's inner tubes, David Papineau's physicalism, that left-behind Union Theory of
consciousness and brain now succeeded by Actualism.2. Politics and hence right and wrong,
consequentialism about rightness, equality and its obvious problem, the Principle of Humanity,
maybe its holiness, conservatism and
liberalism, hierarchic democracy,  civil
disobedience, Marx and Mill, Anti-Semitism and also Semitic Inhumanity, a respectable instance of neo-Zionist
philosophy, terrorisms, the moral right of the Palestinians to their terrorism, war
and
the terrorist-war criminal Blair. 3. Determinism's truth and its relation to freedom
and
responsibility, the absurdity of both the ideas that determinism is
compatible and that determinism is incompatible with freedom, philosophical
autobiography, philosophical attacks and defences and rows, and more.
4
General and miscellaneous. Russell's great Theory of Descriptions and
Strawson's objection, two views of the Logical Positivist A. J.
Ayer,
against the idea of effects as merely high probabilities, interviews and broadcasts, several fusses.
And here, from each of these four categories, a few quick selections.1. Consciousness and mindJohn Searle and Property DualismActual Consciousness, the 1st review, Times Higher EducationActual Consciousness: Why it makes consciousness a subject for still more scienceActual Consciousness: An author's oversight already, the tyranny of the present, grandiosityDescartes, dualism, objective physicalism, the true physicalism -- another summary of a book of 213,000 wordsHay-on-Wye videos -- consciousness lecture
Davidson's Anomalous Monism and the Champion of MauveRoger Penrose and Ted Honderich on consciousnessExcerpts from 11 papers by others and from Honderich's replies in a book on his now outlived thinking about consciousness and radical externalismFrom that past book, seeing
things & intentionality in
seeing2. politics and right and wrongThoughts after the book After The Terror on our culpable omissions in a loss of 20 million years of living time in AfricaJurgen Habermas on After the TerrorA book interview with Ted Honderich on American state terrorismOccupy London talks to the occupiers at St. Paul's Cathedral A tv interview & transcript about PalestineFull lectures (Chomsky, Honderich etc) in a series on terrorHay-on-Wye videos -- debate on terrorism -- & the talk Terrorisms, Wars, The New Teletubbies
The Neo-Zionist libel of anti-semitism and the fall and rise of a book in GermanyOn Understanding, Endorsing or Inciting TerrorismA Greek interview -- Mass Civil Disobedience TodayChomsky on simple truths about terrorism etcPostscript to the German book-banning having to do with purported anti-semitism: The Absent Prof.
Brumlik Our air war on Libya
Reviews by the politicians Michael Foot and Enoch Powell of After the Terror3. determinism, freedom, responsibilityDan Dennett, a review of Honderich A Theory of Determinism: The Mind, Neuroscience, and Life HopesA. J. Ayer review of Honderich determinism book aboveA recent and different idea on determinism and our human standing owed to thinking about consciousnessDoyle on Honderich on determinism and freedomOn the curious idea that effects are only high probabilitiesGalen Strawson on free willCh.1 of the book How
Free Are You? in French
The general paper Effects,
Determinism, Neither Compatibilism Nor Incompatibilism, Consciousness Maybe true if traditional articles
on determinism & freedom by McCall & McCannMore on determinism and freedom by Manuel Vargas & Ted Honderich4. general, miscellaneous
Thinking about the nature of  time -- the relations of (a) before and after as against (b) past and presentA letter to the editor against a distinguished scientist about philosophy as dead, time, etc. A tiff in a Moral Maze on the BBC, and what would have been said if.... On Bernard Williams on moral luck, and other philosophers on other items, thoughts on themTerrorist-war criminals such as BlairDanish interview, gratifying to the subjectEnglish interview at the Garrick ClubIs the mind ahead of the brain or behind it? Superior thoughts on the neuroscientist Libet.
You gotta read it -- a review of Searle on mind, language and societyHonderich, McGinn, Strohminger -- academic rows and insults about two reviewed books, one being Honderich's On Consciousness One Oxford Union speech, this one about money and politics etcCatherine Wilson review of Honderich, Philosopher: A Kind of Life
T.H. LECTURES, TALKS
2016
9 February, talks in Macmillan Hall, Senate House, University of London, to
do with Ted Honderich's work on consciousness, determinism and freedom,
right and wrong, by Noam Chomsky (by Skype), Gregg Caruso, CUNY, Tim
Crane, Cambridge, Paul Gilbert, Hull, and Paul Snowdon, University
College London. Responses by T.H. Details from Royal Institute
of Philosophy.
9 March, 5 pm, lecture. 'Your Consciousness Is What? Where?'
Institute of Philosophy, School of Advanced Study, Senate House,
University of London.
9 May, Oxford, Wycliffe Hall
28 May, 12 noon, Hay-on-Wye, How the Light Gets In, consciousness lecture
2015
2015 Kings College London, 24 JanRoyal Institute of Philosophy,
28 FebSt. Andrews, Apr 1Hay on Wye, lecture on consciousness, 27 MayHay on Wye, panel discussion with Thomas Pogge on world poverty, also 27 May New
York University, consciousness, Sept 29 Graduate Centre, CUNY, consciousness, Oct 1 Muswell Hill Bookshop, Oct 17Magdeburg, Germany, Nov 25Berlin School of Brain and Mind, Humboldt University, Nov 27, 2015University College London, Philosophy Dept, Feb 12Oxford Brookes, Feb 16
Birkbeck College, Mar 27Oxford, Rewley House,  May 16-17, 2015
Hay on Wye, May 25, talk on consciousness, panel with David Abramovitch, Edwina Currie
Edinburgh Book Festival, August
University of Bern, Nov 26
Curriculum VitaeImagesDisclaimer Invitation to an open philosophical website:   Submissions are welcome on consciousness and mind, determinism, free will, political moralities,
Palestine, Zionism, neo-Zionism, other related subjects, maybe general and miscellaneous.
