Research Data Service - University of Bristol
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Upcoming events
Contact us
Research Data Repository
Home
Writing a data management plan
Storing and using research data
Sharing research data
Sensitive research data
A brief guide to research data (pdf)
Research Data for PGRs (pdf)
Bootcamp Interactive Tutorial
Brief guide to meeting EPSRC data expectations (pdf)
University Research Data Policy
Managing research data
Research data is the information that underpins your research findings. It comes in an endless variety of formats, depending on your discipline. If you're new to the topic research data management don't worry - much of what's involved should be familiar: saving work in a format that can be re-opened easily, naming files so they can be found quickly, backing up valuable data and controlling who has access to it.
Making the most of your research data can help increase the impact of your research and maximises the value of public investment. In addition, many research funders and academic publishers now have requirements around research data.
To learn the fundamentals of research data management, take our Bootcamp interactive tutorial. To learn how the Research Data Service can support researchers in planning, creating, using and sharing research data, explore the rest of our site.
Research data service on Twitter
Most visited data in data.bris past 24hrs: Bare-Earth SRTM
t.co/bGxx4fJK9q
Time ago 1 Hour via sheetstweet
Most visited data in data.bris, past 7 days: The SPHERE Challenge: Activity Recognition with Multimodal Sensor Data
t.co/dyrjXr7Xh3
Time ago 1 Day via sheetstweet
Most visited data in data.bris past 24hrs: Bare-Earth SRTM
t.co/bGxx4fJK9q
Time ago 2 Days via sheetstweet
Follow
@databris
on twitter.
Be Sociable, Share!
Tweet
Maintained by
Library Services and IT Services
University of Bristol, Senate House, Tyndall Avenue, Bristol BS8 1TH, UK. Tel: +44 (0)117 928 9000
a-z index
help
terms and conditions
privacy and cookie policy
© 2002-2012 University of Bristol
