Alyson's Welsh libraries blog | About libraries in Wales, and sometimes beyond
Alyson's Welsh libraries blog
About libraries in Wales, and sometimes beyond
Skip to content
HomeAboutLibraries in WalesLibraries InspireFAQs
← Older posts
New web page links for MALD
Posted on January 13, 2017 by alysontyler
Following website restructuring MALD’s web page addresses changed in December to this link for the main page.
You can find specific pages from the main page, or some you may want to go to directly are:
Libraries – main page. From here, you can see links on the right in the dark box which take you to more specific library related pages e.g.
Welsh Public Library Standards (including the new guidance on community libraries and the statutory service)
Expert Review of Public Libraries 2014
Training opportunities.
Posted in MALD, Wales
|
Leave a comment
Celebrating libraries, archives and museums in Wales
Posted on October 26, 2016 by alysontyler
October and November are busy times in Wales for celebrating libraries, archives and museums as each sector has a festival to help everyone get to know their museum, archive and library and what’s on offer.
(I’m very grateful to Emma Glover at the Audience Development Team for writing the following post.)
Museums, archives and libraries are at the heart of their communities and we want more people to know what they have to offer and to benefit from them. Throughout the year we work to make sure that more and more people are aware of, and use the services on offer – whether you want to read the latest books, look into the history of your community, or get to grips with artefacts that tell your story.
Each year, there are three festivals which celebrate Welsh museums, archives and libraries separately, when venues are filled with events and social media is a hive of activity to show the people who weren’t there, just what they are missing! This is what 2016 looks like for libraries, museums and archives:
Libraries
#LoveLibraries (and #CaruLlyfrgelloedd in Welsh) is a five-week campaign showcasing many of the great things that libraries have to offer their communities, whether they are public, academic or health libraries.
In 2016 the campaign launched with a thunderclap on 1st October and will run until 6th November. For the public, this is a great chance to find out what is available at their local library and take advantage of some of the events that celebrate poetry, children’s books and getting online among other things, while finding out how these vibrant spaces will inspire anyone to learn, interact and imagine!
Libraries of all types promote their regular and special events with #LoveLibraries and #CaruLlyfrgelloedd hashtags to help create a core identity for everything that is taking place – whether it’s study skills for new students, baby bounce and rhyme sessions or shared reading groups for older people. The five-week campaign also has different hashtags which can be used for specific days or weeks, e.g. during the UK Get Online Week, libraries used #LoveDigital alongside the official #GOLW16 hashtag, and they’ll also be taking part in the BBC’s Love to Read campaign with #LoveToRead on 5/6th November.
Find out more at: libraries.wales or llyfrgelloedd.cymru or the events page listing what’s on across Wales or here in Welsh. You may also want to follow the Welsh Libraries Twitter account and Facebook page.
Museums
The Welsh Museums Festival 2016 runs from 22nd-30th October and demonstrates that museums are fun places to visit all year round, whatever the weather.
This festival highlights the positive impact that museums make on people of all ages in Wales through events such as Museums at Night (28-29th October), half term events and Hallowe’en celebrations.
Events like these and an increased social media presence show that museums are interesting and exciting for all the family. They demonstrate that people are empowered through learning and their collections help us understand our location and how our communities have developed, strengthening our sense of identity.
Find out more at museums.wales or amgueddfeydd.cymru
Archives
Explore your Archive will launched on 19th November 2016 with celebrity chef Bryn Williams and a Welsh cake or two!
This celebration of Welsh archives will run until 27th November and there will be events going on across Wales that will allow people to explore what archives have to offer. These events will show how archives enable us to connect with past generations to learn the stories of our past and preserve our collective memory and cultural identity.
Archives are not just places that store documents:Explore your Archive will give the public the chance to see collections of artefacts that tell a common story, such as the history of Welsh football, cricket in South Wales and the intriguing ‘Young, Victorian and in Court…’.
Find out more at archives.wales or archifau.cymru
Posted in Academic libraries, Events, Health libraries, Libraries, Libraries Inspire, Marketing, Media, Social media & social networking, Wales
|
Leave a comment
The National Library of Wales in a new light
Posted on September 2, 2016 by alysontyler
Although I have not yet read the novel Y Llyfrgell (my Welsh needs to improve a bit more first), I was keen to watch the film adaptation, The Library Suicides (or Y Llyfrgell in Welsh), which has just been released (August 2016) in Welsh with English subtitles. As I’m in Aberystwyth I had the slightly surreal pleasure of watching the film only a few minutes walk away from where 90% of the film is set: the National Library of Wales.
It’s a very tightly focused film, in terms of only having a few main characters (four/five), and being almost entirely filmed inside the National Library. As I am lucky enough to go to meetings and events in the National Library, including walking through the staff areas, it was slightly strange to see sections I know in real life up on the big screen. Especially when they’re covered in blood. I took extra care in the revolving doors when I next went to the library!
According to a colleague who has seen the film and read the book, the two are actually quite different, and, to avoid giving much of the plot or ending away, I’ll just say that apparently the film’s ending is more ambiguous than in book.
The film centres around twins, Ana and Nan, who work in the National Library as digital curators/archivists. There are some great one-liners about digital preservation, cultural significance and the role of digital collections – yes, seriously! Librarians will also recognise the amateur’s classic error in the rolling stacks…
Source: Wikipedia
For me the film addresses questions of the trustworthy nature (or otherwise) of narrators, the truth behind works of fiction or non-fiction, the diary as an accurate record of history, and the role of institutions like the National Library, in providing access to history and culture. A crucial element is also the impact of dementia on people and their lives. And the concept of revenge.
As a friend and colleague (no longer living in Aberystwyth) said it made her wistful for the sea and Aberystwyth – I found it made me rekindle my soft-spot for Aberystwyth too.
It’s well filmed, well acted, and well written (Fflur Dafydd, the book’s author wrote the film adaptation too). If you get a chance, go and see it. It opened in the Edinburgh Film Festival, where Catrin Stewart won Best Performance in British Feature. There are still a few screenings planned for their initial tour – see the Facebook page or Twitter account, including a showing in the National Library itself!
Posted in Buildings, Cymraeg/Welsh, Digitisation, Wales
|
Tagged Fflur Dafydd
|
2 Comments
Publishing and literature in Wales survey
Posted on August 22, 2016 by alysontyler
Image CC-0 from Pixabay
The Welsh Government is reviewing its support for publishing and literature in Wales and there is an open questionnaire/survey for anyone to fill in. Closes 31 August 2016 and is also available in Welsh. Readers and librarians may be keen to give their views.
Most of the questions are quite closed/set, but there are four open ones you might want to think about before hand so you have your answers ready (maybe type them up first so you can copy and paste at that point). They are:
“What are the main challenges faced by the publishing industry and literature in Wales? These could be cultural, social, economic or of another kind.
Which aspects of the support currently provided for publishing and literature are working well (and why)?
Is there anything that should be done differently (and, if so, why)? Please explain what the outcomes would be of making the changes you describe.
Is there anything else you would like the Panel to consider?”
Posted in Consultations, Cymraeg/Welsh, E-books, Governance, Libraries, Public libraries, Reading, Wales, Welsh Government
|
Leave a comment
Big friendly start to the Big Friendly Read!
Posted on August 3, 2016 by alysontyler
“The event was a chance to show what libraries do so well, everyday – a place full of people having a great time, celebrating reading.” (Jemma Francis, my colleague)
Public libraries across Wales, along with their counterparts in the rest of the UK, have combined two great book things in one, to make a major summer splash. How? They have themed the ever popular Summer Reading Challenge (SRC) with celebrating 100 years of one of the UK’s favourite storytellers (Roald Dahl) in the Big Friendly Read 2016. Roald Dahl was born in Wales 100 years ago, and so the 2016 Summer Reading Challenge theme is his books and characters. Even better, the graphics for the SRC have been produced by Quentin Blake, who illustrated many of Dahl’s children’s books.
In Wales the official start took place at Glynneath Library (in Neath Port Talbot), on Thursday 28th July, with a packed library of kids, adults, a friendly police officer, storyteller and author Mike Church, and an engaging reading and talk from the Wales Cabinet Secretary for Education, Kirsty Williams. She said:
“The Summer Reading Challenge has proved hugely successful in motivating children to read more over the summer holidays. Research has shown that this helps keep their reading level up before going back to school in September.
“As Roald Dahl so perfectly said, ‘if you are going to get anywhere in life, you have to read a lot of books’ and I would encourage parents to make the most of the time with their children this summer, dive into a book and who knows where you’ll end up.”
Kirsty Williams (R) with Aled Evans, Director of Education at NPT (C) Welsh Government
Ken Skates, Cabinet Secretary with responsibility for libraries in Wales, said:
“We know libraries can have a real positive impact on children’s lives, introducing them to countless new interests and helping them develop a love of reading. I’m pleased we have been able to continue our support for the Summer Reading Challenge this year, and hope it will help children across Wales get involved in adventures throughout the summer.”
My colleague Jemma Francis attended the event and said the event was vibrant and action packed.
She said, “I remember taking part in many Summer Reading Challenge events during my time working in public libraries, so I was really pleased to be able to attend the celebration event at Glynneath library. The library staff had made a fantastic effort to add lots of Roald Dahl touches to the library to tie in with the theme, including dream jars (made by the children) and Big Friendly Read bunting (I loved this!).
“At 9.30am there was a real buzz at the library as lots of children and parents came along to see the entertainment from Mike Church – who made the adults laugh just as much as the children with his Willy Wonka antics. We also had a reading from the Cabinet Secretary for Education Kirsty Williams, who read an excerpt from George’s Marvellous Medicine in keeping with the Dahl theme. The event was a chance to show what libraries do so well, everyday – a place full of people having a great time, celebrating reading.”
Thanks to everyone who organised this event which sounded brilliant!
Mike Church entertaining the children (and adults!) (C) Welsh Government
The Reading Agency and public libraries across the UK deliver the annual Summer Reading Challenge, when children aged 4-11 are encouraged to read six or more library books (or comics etc) of their choice during the summer holidays, with collectable incentives and rewards, plus a certificate, or medal for every child who completes the challenge.
Taking part in the Summer Reading Challenge is free and is one example of what public libraries offer to help children develop a love of reading, gain confidence and get new skills.
Kirsty Williams (centre), Cabinet Secretary for Education with two Glynneath library staff. (C) Welsh Government
Public libraries across Wales are holding lots of events and activities during the summer holidays to keep children occupied and parents stress free! Some of the fantastic events that have been organised for the SRC in Welsh libraries include a chocolate workshop, author visits, art and craft sessions and an interactive drama and play group.
Information about local libraries in Wales can be found on libraries.wales.
The Welsh Government press release for SRC event is on their website.
Posted in Libraries, Literacy, Public libraries, Reading, Wales, Welsh Government
|
Tagged Reading Agency, Summer reading challenge
|
1 Comment
Adults’ media use, particularly of the Internet, from Ofcom research
Posted on May 19, 2016 by alysontyler
Last month (April 2016), Ofcom produced its annual Adults’ Media Use and Attitudes Report for the UK. This research report looks at “media use, attitudes and understanding, and how these change over time, with a particular focus on those groups that tend not to participate digitally. The report covers TV, radio, mobile, games, and the internet, with a particular focus on the latter.”
For libraries, there are a number of salient points, some of which I have picked out here (my bold emphasis). The summary pages at the beginning of the report are useful to read if you are pressed for time or less interested in some areas of the report.
Just over one in ten (13%) do not use the internet at all, which rises to 65% of those aged 75+, and 33% of 65-74s and 42% are in DE households.
A third of internet users have never completed any government processes online; 16-24s, 65-74s, over-75s and DEs are less likely to access public or civic services online.
There has been a sizeable increase in the proportion of internet users saying they only use websites or apps that they’ve used before (42% vs 31% in 2014).
Search engines are the only online source that a majority of internet users consider to be ‘very important’ for finding information.
Half of search engine users (51%) were unable to correctly identify adverts or sponsored links in a results page of a search engine; this was more common among over-65s and those in DE households.
Although six in ten (62%) say that, on a results page, some of the websites listed will be accurate and unbiased and some won’t be, 18% think that if a website has been listed by a search engine it must be accurate and unbiased. A further 12% say they have not thought about this, and 8% say they do not know. Those aged 25-34 are most likely to give an incorrect response to this question.
Just over one in ten (12%) say that they ‘don’t really think about whether to trust a site, and just use those they like the look of’.
There has been a considerable rise (from 6% in 2014 to 16% in 2015) in the proportion of adults who only use smartphones or tablets to go online, and not a PC/laptop.
There is increasing polarity between different age groups in terms of communications activity.
Image CC0 Public Domain from Pixabay
Library staff in all sectors can, and do, help to improve digital literacy skills of people who they come across (in the library) – the next area to tackle may be how to reach those who don’t come to the library, and who stick only to the websites or apps they already know, and who fully trust search engines.
Posted in Digital things, Information literacy, Libraries, Media, Publications, Research, Technology, UK
|
Tagged digital literacy, digital skills, Ofcom
|
Leave a comment
Mini round up of news from Welsh libraries
Posted on April 1, 2016 by alysontyler
Despite my recent silence on social media, particularly lack of blog posts, there has been lots going on in Welsh libraries, and today’s blog post only highlights some of the recent items.
Deeside Library (C) Welsh Government
Yesterday (31st March 2016), Ken Skates AM, Deputy Minister for Culture, Sport and Tourism, announced £2.3m of Welsh Government funding for museums, archives and libraries for 2016-17. Of this, £1m is capital funding for the Community Learning Libraries Programme, with modernisation awards going to libraries in Bala, Brecon, Cardiff, Haverfordwest, Holywell and Merthyr Tydfil.
The Community Learning Libraries Programme has now modernised just over 100 libraries since it began, investing over £14m of Welsh Government funding, along with local authority funding, in almost 10 years. The Deputy Minister for Culture, Sport and Tourism attended a celebration event earlier in March 2016 to mark this milestone and opened Deeside library which had received a grant create a new facility in the leisure centre (amalgamating three smaller part-time libraries).
Ken Skates AM, Deputy Minister for Culture, Sport and Tourism launching ‘my digital library’
March also saw a refresh of the all-Wales digital offer with the Deputy Minister for Culture, Sport and Tourism launching ‘my digital library’ and a new enhanced national digital library service via the Welsh  libraries portal. The portal has also changed web address to the new .wales and .cymru domains and is libraries.wales or llyfrgelloedd.cymru. The digital offer now includes e-audio books as well as e-magazines and standard e-books, all of which can be accessed remotely with a Welsh public library card. It also provides direct access to some of the popular remote-access e-resources available from the National Library of Wales, and a link on how to become a remote e-reader of the National Library (which requires a Welsh postcode.)
One final achievement in March is the publication of the first annual report (review) of Welsh libraries. This was a recommendation of the inquiry into public libraries by the National Assembly for Wales’ CELG Committee and was accepted by the Expert Review of public libraries, and broadened to include all library sectors in Wales. The review is available on the Expert Review pages of the Welsh Government website.
Alongside all these items of work, Jemma and I have been busy with the end of financial year, the end of Libraries Inspire, and preparing for 2016-17.
Posted in Buildings, Digital things, E-books, E-magazines, Grants, Libraries, Libraries Inspire, MALD, Online resources, Public libraries, Wales, Welsh Government
|
2 Comments
← Older posts
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,291 other followers
Search this blog
Search for:
Recent posts
New web page links for MALD
Celebrating libraries, archives and museums in Wales
The National Library of Wales in a new light
Publishing and literature in Wales survey
Big friendly start to the Big Friendly Read!
CategoriesCategories
Select Category
Academic libraries  (41)
America  (3)
Awards  (19)
Buildings  (9)
Careers  (12)
Challenges  (13)
CILIP  (27)
Communication  (8)
Conferences  (18)
Consultations  (10)
Customer service  (9)
CyMAL  (42)
Cymraeg/Welsh  (13)
Digital things  (33)
Digitisation  (6)
E-books  (26)
E-magazines  (3)
England  (25)
Equal opportunities  (9)
Evaluations  (2)
Events  (16)
Governance  (16)
Grants  (14)
Health libraries  (9)
Heritage  (1)
Impact/Value  (7)
Information  (4)
Information literacy  (13)
Libraries  (111)
Libraries for Life  (4)
Libraries Inspire  (30)
Literacy  (15)
MALD  (7)
Marketing  (35)
Measuring impact  (6)
Media  (14)
Northern Ireland  (6)
Online resources  (13)
People’s Collection Wals  (1)
Presentations / talks  (11)
Public libraries  (92)
Publications  (22)
Reading  (27)
Republic of Ireland  (3)
Research  (35)
School libraries  (9)
SCL  (8)
Scotland  (17)
Screencasts  (2)
Shared services  (4)
Social media & social networking  (17)
Strategies  (17)
Technology  (28)
Training  (6)
UK  (38)
Uncategorized  (13)
Wales  (125)
Welsh Government  (7)
Welsh Public Library Standards  (10)
Workforce development  (16)
tag cloudAcademic libraries Awards CILIP Conferences CyMAL Cymraeg/Welsh Digital things E-books England Events Governance Grants Information literacy Libraries Libraries Inspire Literacy Marketing Media Publications Public libraries Reading Research Scotland Social media & social networking Strategies Technology UK Uncategorized Wales Workforce development Older posts
January 2017 (1)
October 2016 (1)
September 2016 (1)
August 2016 (2)
May 2016 (1)
April 2016 (1)
February 2016 (1)
January 2016 (2)
November 2015 (4)
October 2015 (1)
September 2015 (2)
August 2015 (2)
July 2015 (3)
June 2015 (2)
May 2015 (3)
April 2015 (3)
March 2015 (3)
February 2015 (1)
January 2015 (3)
December 2014 (4)
November 2014 (2)
October 2014 (3)
September 2014 (1)
August 2014 (3)
July 2014 (5)
June 2014 (1)
May 2014 (6)
April 2014 (2)
March 2014 (3)
February 2014 (5)
January 2014 (7)
December 2013 (2)
November 2013 (4)
October 2013 (6)
September 2013 (2)
August 2013 (3)
July 2013 (5)
June 2013 (3)
May 2013 (7)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (6)
February 2013 (4)
January 2013 (6)
December 2012 (3)
November 2012 (5)
October 2012 (5)
September 2012 (5)
August 2012 (7)
July 2012 (3)
June 2012 (1)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (3)
March 2012 (4)
February 2012 (5)
January 2012 (5)
December 2011 (5)
November 2011 (6)
October 2011 (5)
September 2011 (2)
August 2011 (4)
July 2011 (4)
June 2011 (2)
May 2011 (5)
April 2011 (4)
Blogroll
Alyson's Welsh libraries blog (in Welsh)
CILIP in Wales Blog (Mandy Powell)
CILIP Information and Advice Blog
CyMAL
E-books and libraries on Scoop.it
Information and Libraries Scotland
Irish Library News
Library Wales portal
National Library of Wales blog
Voices from the SWAMP
Welsh Information Literacy Blog
WHELF blog
Twitter feed
@JLPwxm I made a homemade one in 1991/2 and was ill - thankfully other people make better ones! 				1 day ago
. @OrkneyLibrary @WelshLibraries Yay, so great to see the Welsh bags in Scotland! 				1 day ago
Aw, "sprinkling of gold dust" review of @ned_potter's talk about UX - agree! @WelshLibraries #marketingawards 2 days ago
Just learnt at @WelshLibraries #marketingawards that today is Day of Facts led by libraries, museums and archives
dayoffacts.wordpress.com 2 days ago
@ned_potter @NLWales Great views from there too. 				2 days ago
Follow @libalysonRSS feed RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
E-books and libraries – my Scoop.it pageAn error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.
Blog Stats
45,152 hits
Alyson's Welsh libraries blog
Blog at WordPress.com.
Alyson's Welsh libraries blog
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
