Ipswich Transport Museum
Ipswich Transport Museum
Preserving the transport heritage of Ipswich since 1965, and now supported by the Friends of the Ipswich Transport Museum.
The Ipswich Transport Museum is a Registered Charity No. 276626 and an Accredited Museum, number RD890
Home
Map/Admission
Museum Events
Press Releases
Museum History
Ipswich Transport History
Ipswich Engineering
Museum Speakers
Museum Exhibits
Museum Purpose, Policies & Facilities
Collections Development Policy
Education
Museum Sales
Gallery
FriendsRelevant Links
Please help us to preserve the transport heritage of Ipswich by donating below
Last Updated:
The Ipswich Transport Museum has the largest collection of transport items
in Britain devoted to just one town.
Everything was either made or used in
and around Ipswich, the county town of Suffolk.
A brief history of the collection can be found
on this website.
The collections also include the Ipswich Engineering Collection;
displays and objects celebrating the rich engineering history of Ipswich.
The museum has around 100 major exhibits and many small items connected with transport in Ipswich.
The museum is disabled friendly being on one level only.
Why not visit the Sunbeam Tearoom during your visit and have a delicious cup of tea, coffee or soft drink and a bite to eat?
The operations of the Museum are supported by the
Friends of the Ipswich Transport Museum.
The Museum also organises the annual Ipswich to Felixstowe Historic
Vehicle Road Run in May each year and a number of special events throughout the year.
The Annual Ipswich to Felixstowe Historic Vehicle Run 2017.
Once again we are holding the Ipswich to Felixstowe Historic Vehicle Road Run to raise funds for the Ipswich Transport Museum, so we are inviting entries for the 47th event on Sunday 7th May 2017. The entry fee is £17 per vehicle (see Museum Events Page).
Invite Letter and Entry Form:
Invite Letter.
Entry Form.
2017 Calendar now available online
Our 2017 leaflet is available here
Ipswich Transport Museum is now closed to the public and will re-open March 2017.
Our next event is Sunday 9th April - Ipswich Bus Rally (standard museum admission today)(see Museum Events Page and Museum Press Releases).
Details and entry forms for the 47th Felixstowe Road Run event on Sunday 7th May 2017, can be found by clicking on the following links, Invite Letter.  and the Entry Form.
This virtual tour has been provided by Carl Lamb of Ambient Light.
We are very grateful to Carl for arranging this for us.
Have you visited the Ipswich Transport Museum?
If so please write a short review by clicking here and if you liked the museum please enter "+1" whilst doing your review.
Find us on facebook by clicking on the blue icon
For general Museum enquiries, the Museum can be contacted by email
© Ipswich Transport Museum
Scrolling News Ticker
by Mioplanet
