Home | National Coal Mining Museum for England
This site requires a JavaScript enabled browser. Please enable Javascript or upgrade your browser to access all the features.
What's On
Exhibitions
Blog
Visitors
Learning
Collections
Hire
Contact
Shop
Support us
Open Daily 10am - 5pm
T: 01924 848 806
Free Entry for Everyone
Dig Deep and Donate
Sign up
Basket
Discover our Collections
More info
Support our Miners’ Memorial Garden
More info
Underground Tours
More info
Learning at the Museum
More info
Museums change lives - change yours, volunteer today!
More info
Wacky Wednesdays!
More info
Underground Tours- new features added
Get kitted out with your hard hat and battery lamp, then descend 140m underground to discover the harsh realities of coal mining through the centuries…
More info
Digitised Coal Magazine
Discover how this mid-twentieth century publication provided an entertaining link between the coalfields, mineworkers and their families…
More info
All Weather Adventure
Come rain or shine, turn your day out into a unique adventure at NCMME! Whether it's 140m beneath the surface or exploring the galleries above ground, you’ll never be stuck for ideas!
More info
Dig deep & donate your free time…
The Museum has a number of diverse volunteer roles for both skilled and enthusiastic individuals - view our latest vacancies and help us to ‘Keep the History of Coal Mining Alive’.
More info
What's on…
24 Jan - 21 Mar 2017
Share your memories about Coal Nationalisation
Do you know someone who lived and worked in the mining industry pre and post nationalisation in 1947?
Attend one of our three memory collection events where we want to encourage visitors to share their memories of Nationalisation.
11 - 24 Feb 2017
School's Out - February Half Term events
At National Coal Mining Museum, we've got great ideas for all the family this February half-term! Plus it's all FREE!
28 May 2016 - 31 Mar 2017
Heroes & Heroines Exhibition
Explore the real lives of people who went beyond the call of duty and add your own heroes and heroines to the Museum's archives.
Sign up to our email newsletter for all the latest news and upcoming events…
Sign up
Meet us at the coalface…
Latest from Twitter
From our Blog
23rd Dec
January Miner of the Month : Chubby
by The Team
This month we've been talking to Chris Brown AKA Chubby about his career as a miner.
22nd Dec
A big thank you to all our volunteers
by The Team
A round up of achievements in 2016 looking at the individual stories of our Volunteers.
13th Dec
Volunteering December - Looking Back and Moving Forwards!
by The Team
The volunteering team have been busy getting in the Christmas spirit this December. Find out more...
About us
The National Coal Mining Museum for England aims to keep coal mining alive by collecting and preserving the industry’s rich heritage, creating enjoyable and inspiring ways to learn for people of all ages, backgrounds and abilities.
Get in touch
National Coal Mining Museum
for England,
Caphouse Colliery,
New Road,
Overton,
Wakefield,
WF4 4RH
Tel: 01924 848 806
Links
Copyright
Terms of Access
Privacy Policy Home
About
Opportunities
Contact
News and Press
Help Preserve our Heritage - Dig Deep and Donate
Make a Donation
Copyright 2017 National Coal Mining Museum for England Trust Ltd. Company Registration Number: 1702426. Charity Registraion Number: 517325.
Ledgard Jepson Design & Development
