Revolutionary Players: The people, ideas & innovations that shaped the modern world
Revolutionary PlayersHistoryWestMidlands
Home
About
Browse
Time
Place
People
Theme
Films
Podcasts
Links
Contact
⇒ View MenuHome
About
Browse
Time
Place
People
Theme
Films
Podcasts
Links
Contact
Search for:
Home
History West Midlands is proud to bring you Revolutionary Players:The people, ideas and innovations that shaped the modern world
The Revolutionary Players were the men and women whose ideas, innovations, industry and achievement shaped the Industrial Revolution in the English Midlands and the world beyond from 1700 to 1830.
They each shared a passion for knowledge and a hunger to apply this new-found wisdom to science, technology, business, art and philosophy at a time of dramatic change.
Revolutionary Players provides the opportunity to freely explore the lives of these fascinating characters, their times and the places where they lived, through painstakingly digitised prints, paintings, drawings, objects, buildings, letters, maps, plans, newspapers and other printed materials.
Most read
Made in Kidderminster: the History ...
The Smethwick Glass Works of Chance...
An Experiment on a Bird in an Air P...
A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orre...
The Brass Industry and Brass Worker...
The Industrial Landscape of the Bla...
Joseph Wright of Derby: Art, the En...
The Origins of Carpet Making in Kid...
The Burne-Jones Windows at St Phili...
Samuel and Nathaniel Buck’s Views o...
Chronology of principal events that occurred during the Industrial Revolution in the West Midlands.
Significant places in the historic counties of Derbyshire, Herefordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Worcestershire and Warwickshire during the Industrial Revolution.
Industrialists, engineers, artists, thinkers and writers who contributed to the Industrial Enlightenment, technology, art, culture, religion and politics.
Explorations of industries and innovations; landscapes and localities; art and architecture; culture and diversity; and the place of the West Midlands in the contemporary world.
Revolutionary Players was developed between 2002 and 2004 and financed by the New Opportunities Fund. Revolutionary Players was created by Dr Malcolm Dick & Dr Kate Iles and managed by Birmingham Museums until 2015. Revolutionary Players is now published and funded by History West Midlands.
• Unique insights
• Fascinating articles
• Beautifully illustrated
VISIT WWW.HISTORYWM.COM
NEWSLETTERSign up for the free Revolutionary Players newsletter and receive regular email updates and news
Send
HWM BOOKSHOPVisit our online book-shop for a fantasticselection of titles and publicationsSHOP ONLINE
The Lunar Men: The Friends Who Made theFuture 1730-1810 by Jenny UglowA vivid and warming group portrait that brings to life the friendships, political passions, love affairs & knowledge that drove these extraordinary men
BUY ONLINE
History West Midlands The West Midlands Enlightenment The inaugural issue of History West Midlands magazine is now available to download for free on the History West Midlands website READ ONLINE HERE
The image is based on 'The Face of the Moon', c.1795, by John Russell 1745-1806. The original is in Soho House Museum, Handsworth, Birmingham© Copyright 2017 Revolutionary Players in conjunction with History West Midlands
Return to Top ▲ error: Content is protected
