Viking Remote Viewing, Psychic Self Defence & Telepathy
Viking Remote Viewing,
Psychic Self-Defence, Remote Psychotherapy and Telepathy.
Fasttrack Version.
This is a very condensed version of the website. This website contains all the writer's work since 1987, and the website has been up since 1995. Thus it is a sprawling mess. For simplicity the important key points are listed below. Go to the
Main Index..
Table of contents -
Yggdrasil..The Viking Tree of Life or Archetypes.
Bad language..The correct use of swearing. A British form of Zen. Essential basic for psychic self-defence.
Telepathy.. The basis of remote viewing.
Remote Viewing..
Remote Psychotherapy..
Tables of Emotion for various parts of the Brain..
Conscious walking.. a remedy for a noisy mind.
Goals in life..Sorting out one's goals, Adlerian style.
Repairing ..psychic ability.
Full blast.. The writer's preferred method.
Actions.. to use.
Original Sin.. The curse of monotheism
The Fire Barrier..
The Sea of Memory..
The rules of magic..
Targets..
YGGDRASIL, The Viking Tree of Life or Archetypes.
For those who need Gods, and want to test their limits, there is a good range of Gods here.
For those who no longer need Gods, there is a good range of archetypes as guides to life.
Female side
SURT
Male side
Beingness
Fire, Man fully awake
Doingness
Man who no longer needs the Gods
|
The Ragnarök
The Apocalypse of the Gods.
|
HOENIR
Free will, Man still needing the Gods
/|\
/
|
\
FRIGG
----------+----------
ODIN
Analysis
/
|
\
The tribal leader, politician
/
|
\
FREYA
----------+----------
THOR
The alpha female,
|
The alpha male,
Understanding
|
intention carried out
HEIMDALL
Perception,
The Dark Night of the Soul
Seeing things as they really are.
|
TYR
------------+----------
MIMIR
Responsibility
|
Communication
Discipline
|
BALDER
Beauty, the sacrificed God, point of balance, Forgiveness.
The enthusiasm of youth.
Enlightenment (where everything is in balance)
The Completion of Cycles of Thought.
Psychological Repair in all directions.
|
|
BRAGI the student-------+----------
WEYLAND the blacksmith
Learning
|
Experience
LOKI
The Mind, impulse.
Fast reflex thought, juvenile emotions and Faith.
The original Loki was Denisovan or Nefilim, not Homo sapiens.
|
FREYR
Environment, Babyhood.
FROST GIANTS
THE PIT
Older Gods
All Sewage
Conventional Wisdom
says "Aim for the top". Practical wisdom says "Yes, but return to the balance point afterwards".
See Zen Viking Section..
The correct use of swearing. A British form of Zen.
Standard Advice for anyone needing psychic self defence.
Zen is the art and science of commanding entities to do the impossible, and the more impossible the better. The British counterpart is known as swearing and bad language. Unfortunately the more one uses it, the less effective it becomes. You must to be prepared in private to use ungentlemanly language into the telepathic net to tell your psychic enemies just what you think of them. Target say 'Everyone who wants to attack us' and tell them what fates you are going to make them suffer. You need to develop a very bad temper and plenty of anger, but reserve it for those who deserve it. It does pay to name one's targets. The only reason we have been able to survive in remote viewing for 19 years, is that we have always given psychic self defence priority over remote viewing.
Be prepared to shout into the Telepathic Net 'Stuff your XXX up your YYY'. This may be the height of rudeness and blasphemy, but it is very good Zen. There is no need to suffer in silence.
The same Zen principle is also invaluable in personal meditation. Psychic entities prefer you to use logic, theirs of course, as Zen is liable to bring them screaming up into real time. Do not use swearing in company or in public as this is just a waste of resources. Also if an entity answers to the name of a******e, then that is probably exactly what they are. Anger is the enemy of mind control from outside.
Telepathy, the basis of Remote Viewing.We live in a sea of telepathy.
In 1962, Dr Andrija Puharich told everyone in his book "Beyond Telepathy" - People in distress tend to telepath, while people in a quiet state of mind tend to receive telepathy.
To which we will add -
People with an overload from people in distress also tend to telepath.
The greater the villain or holy man, the greater the telepath, as they have their Towers of Babel to defend.
There are plenty of people out there who want to telepathically mind control you.
Telepathy contains plenty of emotion, but very little logic or data.
Telepathy is a product of the primitive reptilian brain, and not the higher left and right sides of the brain. It deals with automatic, sub-conscious and pre-programmed behaviour, and fast thought. It is the home of faith and religion. People who know the emotional scale which goes from work at the top, through play, enthusiasm, interest, boredom, anger, fear down to apathy and death, will find emotions greater than boredom or contentment are missing. However one will find the Fates worse than Death like blame, shame, regret, and also all forms of mind control.
The higher left and right hand sides of the brain does have full access to the emotions above and conscious thought. However there is usually so much chatter caused by unresolved problems in the reptilian brain, that the reptilian brain can not be heard.
Remote Viewing.
In the military model pioneered by the CIA, CRV (Co-ordinate Remote viewing), 2 people are involved. The military analyst wants to know what that strange object is, in a photo from space. He assigns an 8 digit random number to his request, and sends it to the remote viewer. (This was originally a map reference, hence CRV.) The remote viewer gives his reading of the target.
The reality is that the analyst does the remote viewing by linking into the target out of curiosity and need. The remote viewer sits back and unscrambles the telepathy involved. Remote viewing is listening with the mind, and is best if one can go into no-thought, or can sufficiently relax.
Like any other psychic work, remote viewing tends to be 50% correct if one is a believer, and 50% wrong if one is a sceptic.
The military CRV model is relatively safe as 2 minds are involved. Solo remote viewing is highly dangerous as there are too many people out to mind control you. Thus we use Remote Psychotherapy instead as it gives the necessary psychic defence.
See Military Index..
Remote Psychotherapy.
What is the use of cleaning up one's own mind, when there are so many people out there trying to mind control you. It is better to deal with the people throwing tin cans into your garden, than to clear up one's garden. It is surprising how much data come back to one. The first casualties when one looks outside oneself, are one's own alter-egos and similar personal rubbish, a very necessary step. This is strictly for those who want to take an extroverted look at life, and not contemplate their navel.
When one is in a relaxed state of mind, it is not possible to generate telepathy. However if any come from outside, then it is possible to turn it around, and return it to sender suitably amended and with a bit of added Zen.
When the recipient is virtuous, they will put any effects down to their superior intelligence. However this approach will neutralise villains. There is a pagan maxim, "Do good to your enemies as it confuses them terribly". A far more important consideration is that one is stepping out into the telepathic world with one's psychic defences in place.
Abreaction.
This is any sort of boil off of emotion, generally in the form of laughter, but can take other forms. It is a sign of success in meditation.
Emotion.
See M01. Tables of Emotion for various parts of the Brain...
Conscious walking. A remedy for a noisy mind.
Go for a long walk observing everything around you. Put your full attention on the environment. Observe and identify trees or cars. A lot of thought will come to the surface where it can be handled. Do not stop walking until one understands what conscious walking is.
Conscious walking..
Goals in life. Sorting out one's goals, Command list Adlerian style.
To be our goals in life.
To not be our goals in life.
To become our goals in life.
To not become our goals in life.
To have been our goals in life.
To have not been our goals in life.
This is a useful meditational series, as long as it produces abreaction. "Goals in life" can be replaced by any individual goal which appears relevant and produces abreaction. Goals are tied up with astrology. Everyone who has tried this has given it up as a bad job as there are just too many goals. Thus we have lumped them all together and handled them as one.
Simple drills..
Command lists for repairing psychic ability.
We will do. (If no abreaction, amend or pick another list.)
We will locate points in space.
We will locate points in time.
We will locate points in the physical universe.
We will locate objects in the physical universe.
Etc.
Commanding a beingness to do shakes up beingness.
"We" has been used as a target, as it will cut through all alter-egos which claim to be external entities. "I" and "We" are good for personal responsibility. "You" can also be used as well as any outside entity.
There are no patents on command lists. Alter them to suit yourself. It is results which count.
We will do.
We will psi.
We will ESP.
Etc. Use what ever abilities you wish to make work.
More simple drills..
Full blast. The writer's preferred method.
We need a beginning to set the scene which can be reasonably static, a middle to do the work which will change with requirements, and an end to close the cycle. This pattern is common to most religious and magical operations.
XXX can be any target you like, current or historic, and can be abstract.
It is surprising how many insights and how much remote viewing can be had.
This is good for neutralising enemies, and is thus reasonably safe.
Let intuition be your guide. This has to be constantly changed due to the rules of magic.
Every XXX will do. (If no abreaction then find another subject.)
(The Start which can be somewhat static, but change to suit requirements.)
Every XXX will psi.
Every XXX will ESP
Every XXX will locate points in space.
Every XXX will locate points in time.
Every XXX will create total free anger.
Every XXX will create total free reincarnation.
(The middle which must be kept dynamic, so that it can be kept reasonably new each time. This means constant change to suit requirements. This is to allow one to work from the heart and avoid memes. Let Intuition and Zen be your guide.)
Every XXX will reincarnate my enemies.
Every XXX will reincarnate everyone greater than my family.
Every XXX will reincarnate everyone greater than my country.
Every XXX will reincarnate everyone greater than God. (A good check on schizophrenics.)
Every XXX will reincarnate everyone too big to handle. (Call their bluff.)
Every XXX will reincarnate every (use your imagination and intuition). (Dead entities must be loyal to you as you are living and thus a source of energy. They would like you to think otherwise.)
(If no abreaction in this section, then the subject is either exhausted, or the list needs changing.)
(Close Down with some suitable profanity.)
(Go back to start.)
Current RV model..
Actions to use.
Reincarnate has been used above. Disincarnate spirits do not like it. There are plenty of alternatives depending on one's mood, like destroy and incinerate. Kill can be used as it is impossible to kill the living by psychic means, but it is possible to kill the dead!
The best tool of all is Forgiveness, which is totally illogical to the conscious mind, but is the highest emotion of the reptilian brain.
tools and actions..
Original Sin. The curse of Monotheism and the tool of the Black magician.
Original Sin can be defined as guilt without a logical cause. Most people know what they have done in this lifetime. Thus actions in this lifetime can a source of guilt. Such actions can only become sin if some priest defines such actions as sins against God. The reality is that only Gods can sin, and they download all their sins down upon their worshippers. It now appears that a God can only exist because of his sins and unfinished business. Thus if one forgives enemy Gods and foreign Gods their sins, they cease to exist to the extent they did before.
most people expect their God to forgive them their sins. However they never dream of forgiving the sins of their god. This is crazy as forgiveness is a 2 way process.
The Secret Weapon of the Early Christian Church
was the Forgiveness of Sin. It wiped out the sins of all rival Gods. It wiped out Mithras and the Greek and Roman Gods. In the beginning, everyone forgave everyone else, as there was no orthodoxy and thus no heresy. There was no theology, only ideas. Everyone loved everyone else. Then the Church became corporate, and it became easier to burn heretics at the stake than to forgive them. Then Satan had a stroke of genius, and convinced the Church to take up celibacy, and thus made all sex a sin. One can not forgive natural functions. The Christian Church has now lost its secret weapon, and has thus become the victim of other more aggressive religions.
Forgiveness works best when sin is defined by the sinner, and not by any authority.
Thus if one wants to go back to the true message of Jesus, then one must forgive the sins of Christianity and become a true Viking.
Forgiveness..
Fire Barriers.
This is a function or emotion of the basic Reptilian brain. It is also one of the 4 elements, Earth, Air, Water, and Fire. It keeps the other elements in place, and acts as a Ring-pass-not, and is sub-conscious anger. It is best treated as a target if one wants to have Free Will. It does appear that every reptilian brain emotion has its own fire barrier to control the higher conscious brain.
Air - Logical excuses, explanations and apologies for being held down by fire.
Water - Emotion.
Earth - Happy dumping ground.
The Sea of Memory.
There is a great sea of memory out there, outside all living people. This is a product of the unfinished business of the dead. Thus one can have any past life one chooses. These are memories waiting for a host. This is a great source of material for the Acquired Memory System, religion and the occult. Remember that the dead and their memories need the energy and intelligence of the living to activate them. Anger is a great cleanser. The living are greater than the dead, regardless of what they say.
The basic Laws of Magic.
All acts of magic must be performed new each time and from the heart. Any second attempt will invoke a meme or memory of the first occasion, and thus will not work. To get around this, one must constantly vary procedures.
Intention or lack of counter-intention is all important. Necessity can act as intention.
Do not do to others what you do not want done to yourself. Using the black stuff rebounds on the sender, and limits his ability.
Make sure one is clear about one's objectives.
Take responsibility for any unexpected results. As they say, "Be careful what you wish for, as you might just get it". This is especially true when dredging up the thought forms of yesterday.
Magic works in the Universe of thought or telepathy, and thus on human beings. Any effect in the physical universe is very hard to prove.
A bit of magic usually needs a bit of ritual as a front end, and another piece of ritual to close it. Ritual does nothing but it does set the scene. Christians commonly use the Lord's Prayer as this type of ritual, but it is used too often to be anything else but ritual.
Crystal balls, tea leafs, and tarot cards are good thought breakers, which makes a person think afresh each time. A bit of theatre or sense of wonderment can have a similar effect on those watching, also known as "Waking up the audience".
The dead and other thought forms from the past need your energy and intelligence to activate them, as they are dead.
Targets for remote viewing.
For those prepared to do a bit of pillage and rape, there are plenty of terrorists and hackers out there, and their Fascist religions waiting to enslave you. Clip their wings and neutralise them with remote psychotherapy. The Police may prefer to make arrests, but the latest cost of prison according to the Ministry of Justice is £33,000 per person per year. Clipping their wings is far kinder to the taxpayer, and probably also to the target.
Then there are the email tappers. Email tapping by MI5 and the Police is hard to detect, as they employ professionals who do not have a hidden agenda, and therefore they are not psycho-hazards. However there are plenty of people using RIPA (Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2001) email tapping for their own religious, political and trade hidden agendas. They are psycho-hazards, and are the easiest people to remote view if they are reading your email.
Ladies who think all this not their style, should get their boyfriends to do it for them. It is the duty of every man to protect his women folk.
Home page - Viking Remote Viewing and Psychic Self Defence Main Index.
Please send all comments, error, omissions and alleged libel to Edmund Meadows at -
© Edmund Meadows, December 2016. Archived by the British Libraries on
www.webarchive.org.uk/ukwa.
Donations
to defray website expenses are always appreciated in the form of gift cards from
www.amazon.co.uk..
Other details can be found on the Main Index.
