Walden School | Independent School Essex | Saffron Walden
An independent boarding and day school for boys and girls from 3 to 18
Toggle navigation
Home
About Us
About Us
Our Vision and Mission
School History
Governors
Governors
Governors only
About Saffron Walden
The Quaker Foundation
Old Scholars
Good Schools Guide
News
News and Events
Senior Photo Gallery
Prep Photo Gallery
Termly Newsletter
Parents’ Notes
The Crocus
School Magazine
Parents
Parents
Important Dates
Key Policies
Useful Information
Exam Results
Inspection Reports
PTA
Weekly Menus
Friends and Families Day
Calendar
Admissions
Admissions
Request a Prospectus
Registration Form
Fees and Financial Assistance
School Transport
Staff
Staff
Staff only
Job Opportunities
Contact Us
Contact Us
How to Find Us
Nursery/Pre-Prep
Prep School
Senior School
Sixth Form
New School Uniform - order online here.
Non-Uniform Day - Thursday 9th Feb. Bring £1 and support Asthma UK
Half Term begins Fri 10 Feb, 4pm. Lessons start Tues 21 Feb
Welcome to Walden School
We are proud to welcome you to Walden School, a diverse and vibrant day and boarding school, in the heart of Saffron Walden.
Our school, formerly known as Friends’ School, has a bright new look, reflected in the new uniform and colours which will be worn from September 2016. Our refreshed brand is the outward face of many exciting internal changes which have been taking place over the last two years. These changes include upgrades to our magnificent Victorian buildings and 25-acre site and an enhanced and robust educational offering for all our students. I invite you to come and visit us and see for yourselves why we are creating a stir in the eastern region.
Walden School is an old Quaker foundation, resting proudly on a tradition of more than three hundred years of enlightened co-educational education from its beginnings in 1702. We provide education for both boys and girls aged 3 – 18 and we are in effect four schools in one, Walden Nursery and Pre-Prep, Walden Prep, Walden Senior and Sixth Form, all sharing the same beautiful site in the attractive old town of Saffron Walden. Transport links to London and Cambridge are excellent and because of our boarding facilities, we are able to take pupils from farther afield as well as from our own immediate locality.
We offer an excellent independent education, developing challenging and creative programmes of study to suit all our students. We offer GCSEs and A Levels and our students have a fine track record of going to their first choice of university year after year. Our old scholars go on to become lawyers, artists, architects, writers, entrepreneurs, musicians and scientists, a broad range, reflecting the wide range of talent developed here at school.
Pastoral care at the school is outstanding; relationships between staff and students are strong, founded in mutual respect and a love of learning. Students may not know all the answers by the time they leave but we will have shown them where to look and many students of former generations come back regularly to tell us what a strong start in life the school gave them.
We are confident and secure in our long tradition but we are also looking to the future. Come and be part of our journey to become one of the region’s leading schools at instilling enthusiasm for learning and developing natural abilities.  I look forward to welcoming you to Walden School.
Anna Chaudhri
Head
See all News and Photo Galleries
News and Activities
Walden School Win the English Speaking Union Competition
Walden School out perform the competition at the ESU-Churchill National Public Speaking Competition on Monday 12th December
More
Nursery Nativity
Photos from the recent Nursery Nativity play.
More
The Pre-Prep Christmas Play
The Pre-Prep celebrate Christmas with their play, 'A Wish to be a Christmas Tree'.
More
Call on: 01799 525351
Order a prospectus
Get in touch
Your name
Your email
Subject
Enter your message
Address
Walden School,
Mount Pleas­ant Road,
Saffron Walden,
Essex CB11 3EB
Tel: 01799 525351
Fax: 01799 523808
Home
About Us
Staff
Parents
Calendar
Admissions
Contact Us
Nursery/Pre-Prep
Prep
Senior
Sixth form
© Walden School 2017
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimer
Sitemap
