Welcome to Mexicolore
General
Aztecs
Maya
Tocuaro
Kids
Contact
20 Feb 2017/5 Wind
Mexicolore Home
Schools
Piñatas
Costumes
Consultancy
Props
Photo-library
Catering
Links
Contact
Aztec Pages
Maya Pages
Text Size:
Follow @Mexicolore
Today's Maya date is: 13.0.4.4.2 - 1523 days into the new cycle!
Click to find out how we can help you!
Search the Site (type in white box):
LATEST NEWS
Our Aztecs website
Click below to go straight to the homepage of our educational website on the Aztecs...
Aztecs Home Page
PIÑATAS!
Want the Rolls Royce of piñatas? Come to the specialists!
Learn more...Read the blog...
COMING SOON
Though now a tourist spectacle
the Voladores ritual is full of ancient symbolism
Welcome to Mexicolore
Mexicolore (‘Mexico - the Lore of the Land’) was set up in 1980 by Graciela Sánchez, for many years a professional dancer with the world famous Ballet Folklórico de México company, and Ian Mursell, an audio-visual consultant and development education specialist...
Between them they have created a unique team which has worked for over 35 years in partnership with the Museum of Mankind, the British Museum, the Royal Academy of Arts, World Museum Liverpool,
the BBC, over 2,000 primary schools the length and breadth of England, and a wealth of institutions, groups and individuals seeking to learn from Mexico’s culture and people. If you would like to call on their expertise, please phone Mexicolore on +44 (0)20 7622 9577.
Mexicolore is a small independent teaching team based in London providing specialist educational services on Mexico and teaching resources on the Mexica (Aztecs) and Maya, centered on team visits to schools and museums, interactive videoconferencing lessons, artefact loan boxes, and a range of teaching resources, on Mexico in general and the Aztecs in particular, plus background information and advice, for schools and museums throughout England.
Please visit our main Aztecs/Mexica and Maya website!
Either click on ‘Aztec Pages’ (left hand menu) or click on ‘Aztecs’ in the bar at the very top...
We also offer:• traditional hand-made papier mache Mexican piñatas!• authentic Mexican costumes, decorations and props for hire and sale;• a unique photo library on Mexico;• full consultancy service covering everything from Mexican entertainers to Day of the Dead festival traditions• expert judging service on Mexican culture and history.
Our Mexican piñatas
are the real enchilada...
We’re expert judges
at Mexican events...!
A unique
image source
In schools
since 1980
