Home :: National Association of Writers in Education ::
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Home|
About Us|
News|
Membership|
Bookstore|
Contact
MEMBER LOGIN
|JOIN
WRITING IN EDUCATION
Writers in Schools
Writing at University
Writing & Community
NAWE Magazine
NAWE Conference
Training and Events
Free Insurance
Bookstore
THE WRITER'S COMPASS
About the Writers Compass
Events & Opportunities
Resources
Career Stories
One-to-One Services
Contact Us
Links
E-Bulletin Sign-Up
Compass Points
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
YOUNG WRITERS' HUB
About Us
Myths
Listings
Blog
Community
Profiles
Ask The Hub
Contact Us
Mon 20 February 2017
Join NAWE
Member Login
Quick Links
Writing in Practice: the Journal of Creative Writing Research
HE Committee Elections
ArtWorks: Navigator
Creative Writing Benchmark
Latest News...
Only Connect
Mon 7 Nov 2016
The next meeting of NAWE's PhD Network will take place at Birkbeck, University of London, Saturday 3 December, 1.30–4.30pm. Read more...
NAWE HE Committee Elections 2016
NAWE Conference 2016: Final booking deadline 22 October
Call out for Writers
Paper Nations is currently looking for writers to run creative writing workshops across a range of schools we are working with in the South West
Read more...
Writing Ambassadors Training Program 2017
Paper Nation’s Writing Ambassadors Training Programme 2017 is designed to equip you with the skills and expertise to design and deliver your own innovative and sustainable creative writing education projects
Read more...
MIX 2017: Call for Proposals
NAWE is joining Bath Spa University to curate the pedagogical strand of this writing and technology conference. Deadline for proposals is 30 January.
Read more...
New skills for conference delegates
Falconry was one of the exhilarating experiences on offer at the NAWE Conference 2016.
Read more...
Writing in Education No. 70
The latest issue is now available and features articles relating to the NAWE Conference 2016.
Read more...
NAWE is the one organization supporting the development of creative writing of all genres and in all educational and community settings throughout the UK
Events
Continuing the Writing Journey: An opportunity to harvest your imagination and map your fiction
Sat 11 Feb 2017 to Sun 9 Apr 2017
Whether you have travelled with us last
term, hopped off briefly or would like to join this expedition, Adrienne Dines, Sarah Mussi and Barbara Large welcome you to join this creative group in the Discovery Centre, Winchester
‘Crime Narrative Structures and Post Conflict Societies’ with Claire McGowan and Christiana Gregoriou
Citizen: The New Story
Jobs
Administrative Assistant
Deadline: Tue 21 Feb 2017
English PEN is the founding centre of an international writers’ association, working to promote the freedom to write and the freedom to read in the UK and around the world
Publicity Team Member
Festivals & Events Internship
NAWE Magazine
The NAWE magazine, Writing in Education, features articles on critical issues and workshop techniques, plus a wealth of news items.
Issue No. 70 is now available.
Available via subscription to NAWE.
Find out more
© National Association of Writers in Education 2010-2015
Website Credits
Sitemap|
Equal Opportunities|
Website Terms
