Pastels & pastellists: The Dictionary of pastellists before 1800
Pastels & pastellists
Neil Jeffares
Dictionary of pastellists before 1800
The Dictionary of pastellists before 1800 by Neil Jeffares is an art reference work on pastels by artists of all
schools working during the eighteenth century or before. The print edition
was awarded the Besterman/McColvin medal for the outstanding reference book published in the UK in 2006.
Pastels are "luminous and beautiful beyond all other pictures", wrote the English eighteenth century pastellist Francis Cotes, describing
the sensual appeal of this special dust rubbed into paper which has enchanted connoisseurs ever since. But the history of pastels is one of
compounded mistakes and misattributions: these intimate portraits, whose subjects range from dynasts to servants, have been neglected for
the better researched areas of old master drawings and oil painting.
According to the critic La Font de Saint-Yenne (1747), « Le nombre des Peintres en Pastel est infini ».
The task of reassembling their work is inevitably incomplete; but the ambition of the Dictionary is to establish a convincing body of
knowledge to help identify and attribute works by major artists and obscure petits-maîtres, as well as by numerous amateurs, some noble and even royal,
and a large number of female artists for whom the practical advantages of pastel made this the medium of choice. The Dictionary is an essential academic resource for
art historians, a vital tool for collectors and dealers, and a treasure-trove for anyone interested in costume or social and political history.
Pastels from the French school account for more than half the Dictionary, representing most of the more important artists such as
Vivien, Nattier, La Tour, Perronneau, Labille-Guiard and Vigée Le Brun. But there were other major pastellists, such as Copley, Russell,
Mengs, Carriera and Liotard from the American, English, German, Italian and Swiss schools, as well as a host of minor portraitists,
many of whom travelled extensively. The extent of the mutual influences between these schools can only be understood with the Dictionary’s
integrated global coverage.
Online edition – Pastels & pastellists
Since 2008 this website has made available an online version of the Dictionary, regularly updated to
include the latest available information. In October 2010 the site was renamed Pastels & pastellists (with url unchanged)
in recognition of the amount of new material and the way in which it is presented. These additions are detailed below, and include information
that would not be appropriate in a dictionary of artists. The information contained on this site (which will continue to develop) is intended to
constitute a complete prosopography of those involved in the art of pastel.
The core data remains the collection of articles about individual
pastellists, with full lists of their known pastels. The structure of this part of the
online version reflects as closely as possible that of the print version,
using pages with the same layout, and employing the same conventions, abbreviations (designed to be intelligible to users of different languages)
and system of attributions. These, and some recent enhancements to the attributional qualifications and symbols, are set out in
ABBREVIATIONS. In August 2016 a double-decimal numbering system was introduced for all pastels, taking the
form J.123.4567; the
first component refers to the artist in the alphabetical sequence of articles, the second to the sequence of entries within that article.
The symbol φ following an entry means that a photograph has been seen, while Φ means that the work is
reproduced in the 2006 edition of the Dictionary. Please note that the photograph follows the relevant entry, which begins with the
J. number;
there are no captions in the work. The resolution in the on-line articles permits some enlargement of images on screen (Ctrl + plus). A number of high resolution images are available
by clicking on larger image hyperlinks
immediately underneath the low resolution thumbnail in the text (you may be asked to permit a new browser to open to enable the image to be
displayed). Some further, much higher resolution images have also been added, viewable in a popup window using the Zoomify
image streaming technology: these are also accessed by hyperlinks under the image in the pdf files: for example,
Zoomify.
The articles on each artist are in Adobe PDF format (and require Acrobat Reader, which should be enabled to open within your browser). To
view each article, go to the
list of artists and click on the hyperlink. File sizes vary according to the extent of the artist's œuvre; links
to larger files are indicated in bold type. Currently there are approximately 3000 articles (a number of these relate to artists whose
work falls outside the narrow definition of pastel adopted in the print edition and who were omitted for reasons of space; see
Demographics for a breakdown). These files include records of more than 36,000 pastels, of which roughly 16,000 are
known at least from photographs. To give an idea of the expansion of the Dictionary, the 2006 print edition included nearly 600 pages of artist articles
(including anonymous articles); laid out continuously in the same format, the articles online in 2016 would occupy some 2150 pages. Note that while the
length of the worklist is an indicator of the significance of the pastellist, the length of the introductory essay may not be: for example important artists
who occasionally worked in pastel may receive brief treatment, with the reader encouraged to explore the bibliography for further information,
while some more obscure figures are given exhaustive coverage where original research is presented.
The print edition included the following appendices of which updated versions are online:
Abbreviations, including an explanation of the symbols and numbering system
The bibliography, including full details of some 3000 publications referred to by author and date
The list of exhibitions, referred to by town and date; those before 1800 (approximately 250) are accompanied by extracts from contemporary
criticism referring to pastels; bibliographic details of a further 1200 exhibitions since 1800 are also included
The index of sitters, comprising over 13,000 entries
A topographical index of some 1000 museums and other permanent collections
In 2015 three major additions were made to the site. Treatises reprints a large number of sources releating to the techniques of pastel from
before 1800. The Florilegium includes a range of less technical literary and general texts relating to pastel.
The Prolegomena provide
an overall guide to the information on this site.
Pastels & pastellists includes a number of additional reference aids:
The iconographical genealogies (covering over 1400 families), which may be helpful in identitifying
subjects as well as in understanding the processes of commissioning and patronage
A biographical index of approximately 1200 collectors which provides useful information about the evolution of taste
An iconographical index of non-portrait subjects which help locate the small minority of pastels with mythological, religious, genre, landscape, or still life themes
An index of engravers of pastels
An index of suppliers, including inventors, manufacturers, vendors and authors involved with the technical development of pastel
An summary table showing the activity of the 266 most prolific pastellists (a Word document, which may be downloaded and sorted by various criteria)
A topographical index of pastellists' activity showing the towns where pastellists in the Dictionary have been recorded, including permanent locations as well as temporary visits
A discussion of the conservation of pastels, with information on their
construction and the risks faced in display, storage and transport; practical tips on photography are also offered.
Supplementary material
Conservation considerations mean that it is very difficult to mount loan exhibitions of pastels. However in 2011 the Metropolitan Museum of Art
mounted an important exhibition of European pastel portraits with an excellent, fully illustrated catalogue. (To find the exhibits, search
"New York 2011" above.) The exhibition was necessarily smaller than the celebrated Exposition de cent pastels which took place in Paris in 1908 or the
Exposition de pastels français of 1927. The illustrated livrets provide an opportunity to conduct virtual visits
to these older exhibitions:
Exposition de cent pastels (Paris 1908a)
Exposition de pastels français des XVIIe et XVIIIe siècles (Paris 1927a)
The panorama offers a personal selection of some seventy masterpieces
in pastel drawn from public and private collections, set out to illustrate the historical
development of the medium across various schools. An informal selection of images of pastels that have recently appeared may be found
on the diaporama on the author's Twitter pages.
In relation to these virtual exhibitions and a number of other important pastels, a series of essays are being
made available on this site.
Only a small number of pastels were dated by the pastellist. Many artists never signed or dated their work, including prolific
pastellists such as La Tour and Hoare, while others, for example Cotes and Russell, signed and dated a high proportion of their pastels.
It is possible to infer exact dates for some other pastels (although exhibition dates alone can be misleading). The development of individual
artists' styles is often too uncertain to be a reliable basis for organising the main articles in the Dictionary. Chronological tables of
specific artists' dated pastels can be found from chronology hyperlinks in the artists' index.
Summary lists of dated pastels organised by year across all schools and artists can be particularly helpful
in attributing anonymous pastels, as well as being of interest to costume historians. They can be accessed below (large pdf files):
Chronology 1627–1724 1725–49
1750–59 1760–69 1770–79
1780–89 1790–99 1800–20
Full details for each pastel will be found in the main entry for the relevant artist (the sitter's name or date for unidentified subjects suffices
to locate each work).
Besnard & Wildenstein's 1928 monograph on La Tour remains an important resource. A concordance to their numbers may be accessed under the
link B&W Concordance.
Further pages will be added to the site from time to time.
Search Pastels & pastellists
The whole site, including the online edition of the Dictionary, can now be searched using the
box above or by going to the Search page. Structured text searches can be used to locate specific works, e.g. those
sold at auction on a particular date or included in an exhibition; they can also be used in place of a concordance for standard catalogues
raisonnés, for example, by searching R&L n, L&R n, B&W n etc. J. numbers
may also be searched in this way, and should also enable pastels to be
located within the Dictionary using standard internet search engines. Note that results
occurring in pdf files appear in a two-stage
process, with snippets allowing the selection of the pdf files, which when opened present a further list of specific occurrences.
Reviews of the print edition
"Perfection and utter comprehensiveness can never be fully realized,
but Neil Jeffares has come about as close as humanly possible. His care and
diligence shine through this work and do real honor to the artists he
memorializes. Any research library should seriously consider acquiring this
title; there is no other like it, nor is there likely to be for a very long
time." - Jeffrey Weidman, Art Libraries Journal (vol. 32/1, 2007)
"…essential for any scholar interested in pastel painting and ancien
régime portraiture of the noble, ecclesiastical, political and cultural
elites. It also makes a profoundly important contribution to the history of
portraiture as a whole." - Robert Oresko, The Art Newspaper (February
2007)
"…sure to become a standard work." - Antje Matthews, British Journal
for Eighteenth Century Studies (vol. 30/1, 2007)
"…will remain the only undertaking of its kind for the foreseeable
future…." - Rena Hoisington, The Burlington Magazine (May 2007)
"No one interested in the history of portraiture can afford not to have
this comprehensive and admirably indexed production." - Francis Russell, Country
Life (8 June 2006)
"…the first truly international survey of the
genre…exponentially increases the number of pastel images included in earlier
publications…an encyclopedic treatment…. Jeffares has produced a beautiful and
functional publication whose value will not diminish over time." - Heidi Strobel,
Eighteenth-Century Studies
(vol. 40/2, 2007)
"This Dictionary...is a formidable achievement and constitutes a
landmark in the subject. Such a publication was much needed and fortunately, in
so far as the sustained and dedicated scholarship demonstrated by the author is
matched by the highest standards of book production brought to the project by
Unicorn Press, the result is a triumph in more ways than one." - Christopher
Lloyd, Historic House (Winter 2006)
« …un événement de toute première importance…. Il constitue une
base documentaire irremplaçable.  » -
Lugar do Olhar Feliz
"…monumental, beautifully produced and illustrated…an indispensable
research tool, which will revolutionize scholarship in the field." - Robert Snell,
Times Literary Supplement (23 June 2006)
« Le dictionnaire des pastellistes est…une somme comme on en voit
peu, un ouvrage absolument indispensable, pour les historiens d'art comme pour
les marchands et les collectionneurs. Pour paraphraser Pierre Rosenberg, auteur de la préface, il faudra parler
désormais du Jeffares, comme on dit le Thieme-Becker,
le Bellier-Auvray ou le Lugt... » - Didier Rykner, La
Tribune de l'Art (20 septembre 2006)
"… Neil Jeffares...tells us where attributions may be
doubted and sitters are uncertain, and we trust him." - Norbert Lynton, The Art Book (vol. 14/4, 2007)
Citation
It is recommended that citations of the artist articles in this online edition are given in the form: Neil Jeffares,
"Louis Vigée", Dictionary of pastellists before 1800, London, 2006; online edition [http://www.pastellists.com/articles/vigee.pdf],
accessed/update dd-mm-yyyy. The date of the latest update may be found in the footer of each pdf page. URLs for artist articles may be found
on the Artist Index page, by right-clicking on the link and selecting "Copy link location". Essays and
other material posted on the site should be cited as Neil Jeffares, "La Tour, Le président de Rieux",
Pastels & pastellists website [http://www.pastellists.com], accessed/update dd-mm-yyyy.
References to reproductions in the print edition may be given as: Neil Jeffares,
Dictionary of pastellists before 1800, London, 2006, p. 123, col. A , photo ii (or abbreviated to
p. 123Aii). References should not be given to images in the online edition in this form, as the page locations of
individual images are not invariant; instead the J. number
should be cited as a digital object identifier. Since 31 March 2011 the site has been permanently archived on the British
Library's UK Web Archive, which includes six-monthly snapshots of the site from which
earlier versions may be consulted online. The archive may also be consulted in the British Library where recent snapshots are available before online posting.
Amendments, errors and omissions
The database of images and other information relating to
pastels executed before 1800 is kept current, and details of any
errors or omissions from the Dictionary will be welcomed. As H. W. Fowler noted in 1929, "A dictionary-maker,
unless he is a monster of omniscience, must deal with a great many matters of which he has no first-hand knowledge." Space constraints mean
that there is inadequate room in the Dictionary to set out all the information or views that are relevant to attributions or identifications.
The author is happy to provide further information
or to give his views on any pastel before 1800 (without charge but subject to the note below) on an informal basis.
All information received from private collectors will be treated in confidence. Any images supplied may be used in
future editions (whether in print or electronic form) unless specifically restricted. To contact the author please e-mail info@pastellists.com
Contents
ABBREVIATIONS
ACTIVITY TABLE
ARTISTS
AUTHOR
BIBLIOGRAPHY
CHRONOLOGIES
COLLECTORS
CONSERVATION
CONTACT
DEMOGRAPHICS
DIAPORAMA
ENGRAVERS
ESSAYS
EXHIBITIONS
FLORILEGIUM
GENEALOGIES
MUSEUMS
PANORAMA
PRICES
PROLEGOMENA
REVIEWS
SEARCH
SITTERS
SUBJECTS
SUPPLIERS
TOPOGRAPHY
TREATISES
My blog
Tweets by @neiljeffares
Print edition
Published 30 April 2006
Introduction: Pierre
Rosenberg, de l'Académie françaiseHardback, 304x220x50 mm, 3.1 kg, 758 pages, 5000 reproductions
(2000 in colour)
ISBN: 978 0 906290 86 6
Available worldwide directly from Unicorn Press
60 Bracondale
Norwich NR1 2BE
Telephone +44(0)7917 356986
e-mail hugh.tradford@btconnect.com
Click here for
an order form (Adobe PDF file)
La Jeune Dame en robe bleue, the cover
image, is a portrait of an unknown sitter by Adélaïde Labille-Guiard
(1749–1803), pastel on paper, 622x510 mm, signed and dated 1780 (private
collection).
Pastels & pastellists is a non-profit-making, scholarly site. All material on the site or on any
related document, communication (including without limitation any oral statement, Tweet or similar message made by the author or any report in an
auction catalogue referring to the author's views or research) etc. is subject to the notice
printed on page 4 of the Dictionary; in particular, note that
any attribution or other statement is a personal and subjective opinion only, in many cases has been made without inspecting the work directly,
is not intended to be relied upon as a definitive classification (such as might
be considered the function of a catalogue raisonné), and no liability can be accepted to any party. No such communication should be confused with a certificate
of authenticity of any kind, which the author never issues. Any intending purchaser should make independent enquiry. All rights are reserved. The author asserts his moral rights.
The site seeks to respect private collectors' need for confidentiality. It has not been possible to
trace all copyright holders; if you believe an image appears on the site without your permission, please contact us to have the image removed or
to provide any desired consent wording (bearing in mind the use of the images).
This page was last modified on 20 August 2016.
