COLLABORATE: Bringing together staff, students and employers to create employability focused assessments enhanced by technology
COLLABORATE
Bringing together staff, students and employers to create employability focused assessments enhanced by technology
You are here: Home
Coming to a close Published by Rich on 30th Jun, 2014
| Leave a response
1st of December 2011. That was the day I stopped being a “Senior IT Innovator” and became “E-Assessment Project Manager”. It was the official start of my of involvement with the Collaborate project, though truth be told I’d already been involved for some time in the project planning. Roll forward 2­½ years, and the project now […]
Posted in Uncategorized
Visiting colleagues at Queen’s Belfast Published by Rich on 30th Jun, 2014
| Leave a response
I was lucky enough to be invited to present the work of the Collaborate project at Queen’s University Belfast the other week, their Centre for Educational Development was hosting it’s annual conference, and kindly invited me over to host the afternoon keynote session. It was wonderful to finally visit Northern Ireland, a part of the UK […]
Posted in Uncategorized Tagged conference, qub, queen's university belfast
PCAP Published by Stuart on 30th Jun, 2014
| Leave a response
This week the Collaborate Team were invited to present to a group of new academics on the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PCAP) programme. The focus of the session was on assessment, and with the beta version of the digital Work-Integrated Assessment (WIA) dimensions model now available, it was a great opportunity to discuss WIA with […]
Posted in Uncategorized
Digital Debut: The iTest Published by Stuart on 23rd Sep, 2013
| Leave a response
Back in March, Bob Ridge-Stearn, Head of e-Learning at Newman University, discovered our iTest at a Changing the Learning Landscape event.  Since then he’s had a small team of Academics within his IT department working on a digital version.  And the great news is, it’s now ready and Bob has written a Blog post all about it. There […]
Posted in Uncategorized Tagged alt-c, iTest
ALT-C Success: Best Research Paper Published by Stuart on 23rd Sep, 2013
| Leave a response
Last week saw us journey to Nottingham for the 20th Annual ALT – C Conference. Two members of the team were lucky enough to be there, with Stuart presenting the iTest and Rich presenting his Research paper, “Integrating technologies into ‘‘authentic’’ assessment design: an affordances approach”. It was a very successful outing for the project, […]
Posted in Uncategorized Tagged affordances, iTest, Research
The Journey of a Dimensions Leaflet Published by Charlotte on 25th Jul, 2013
| Leave a response
As a project in the second half of it’s official two year time frame, we have been been working on ways to embed and sustain outcomes; looking into ways of enabling Collaborate to affect the design of assessments without the support of the project team. Eventually this process will lead us to the production of […]
Posted in Uncategorized
Assessment in HE Conference Published by Charlotte on 3rd Jul, 2013
| Leave a response
The first conference out of the four planned for Collaborate in 2013 has been and gone and proved to be a very successful event. The Maple House Conference Centre in Birmingham provided a perfect space for formal and informal, thought provoking discussion within the context of new assessment research. It was an impossible task, selecting […]
Posted in Uncategorized Tagged AHE, assessment, authentic assessment, conference, work-integrated assessment
1
2
…
6
Next →
SearchPagesAboutDimensions of Work Integrated Assessment ModelEvaluating a Work-Integrated AssessmentTech TrumpsiTestThe TeamVideo wall “Conversations” blogVideo wall “Reflections” blogVideo wall “Voices” blogSubscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Tagsaffordance alt-c alternative assessment authentic authentic assessment blended assessment blended learning collaborate collaboration conference dunne education enhancement employability employers enhancement evaluation exeter extended project team Feedback Foot Anstey gap guardian iTest jisc live chat modules osborne problem programmes progress psychology redhead report simulation steering group students summary team technology video Virtual Voices work work-integrated assessment work packages
A JISC funded project, under the Assessment & Feedback Programme, Strand A, Institutional Change
ArchivesJune 2014September 2013July 2013June 2013May 2013April 2013March 2013February 2013January 2013December 2012November 2012October 2012July 2012June 2012May 2012April 2012March 2012February 2012January 2012December 2011Meta
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Copyright © 2017 COLLABORATE.
Powered by WordPress and Picturesque.
