Collection Description Focus
UKOLN
Raising Awareness
Home
A-Z of projects and activities
About UKOLN
Contact UKOLN
Accessibility
News RSS
"A centre of excellence in digital information management, providing
advice and services to the library, information and cultural heritage
communities."
UKOLN is based at the University
of Bath.
Dissemination
Events
Presentations
Publications
Resources
Extending the Collection Model
FAQs
Glossary
Mailing Lists
Tutorial
Useful Links
Background resources
Projects
Tools
Collection Description Focus
What CD Focus Does
The aim of the Focus was to improve co-ordination of work on collection
description methods, schemas and tools, with the goal of ensuring consistency
and compatibility of approaches across projects, disciplines, institutions,
domains and sectors. The Focus provided support for projects actively
involved in collection description work and for those investigating
or planning such work. One of the major strands of this support work
was been the development of the CLD (Collection-Level Description) Online
Tutorial. This was been created both as an aid to Implementers and
as a tool for training.
The Focus promoted and facilitated the use of the RSLP
Collection Description Schema as the basis for collection description
implementations. The Focus also worked with the Dublin Core Collection
Description Working Group on the development of a DC-based schema for
collection-level description, using the collection description attributes
of the RSLP CD Schema as a starting point. Implementers were encouraged
to join the DC-Collections list and contribute to the work.
The Focus supported a range of initiatives including the NOF Digitisation of Learning Materials Programme, Peoples Network Programme,
Resource Regional Cross-Domain research projects, British Library Co-operation
and Partnership Programme and a range of JISC projects. The Focus also sought to engage with the FE sector through contact with the
Regional Support Centres.
About Us
The work of the Focus was carried out between 2001 to 2011 by Ann
Chapman, Marieke Guy, Pete Johnston and Bridget Robinson. Other UKOLN staff working on related projects provided support
through expertise and knowledge.
During the period June 2001 - July 2004, when it was separately funded,
the Focus reported to a Management Board.
Focus work now forms part of UKOLN core activities. The Focus is located within UKOLN
and physically based at the University
of Bath. The staff at UKOLN are supported by their partners in the CD Focus
Initiative, the Archives Hub
and the mda (now the
Collections Trust).
The Focus can be contacted at ukoln@ukoln.ac.uk
An archive version of the CD Focus site is available on the Internet Archive. On 13 March 2013 http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/cd-focus/ had been crawled 84 times going back to 29 June 2001.
There is a project page for CD Focus on the Jisc Web site.
|
|
University of Bath
UKOLN receives support from
the University of Bath where it is based.
Page last revised on:
27-Mar-2013
