Home | Department for Employment and Learning
Jump to navigation
Main menu
Home
Welcome to Department for Employment and Learning
The Department for Employment and Learning website
The functions and services delivered by the Department for Employment and Learning (DEL) have been transferred to new departments. The links below will guide you to information on the new websites: Department for the Economy (DfE) and Department for Communities (DfC).
Quick Links
Skills to Succeed
Jobseeker Training Programmes
Careers Service
Labour Relations Agency
JobCentre online
Employers Online NI
Our responsibilities
Finding employment
Advice on training and support available for jobseekers either in person through Jobs and Benefits offices/JobCentres, Careers Resource Centres or online through nidirect. Support for people with disabilities is available from the Disability Employment service
… more
Finding staff
If you want to recruit the right employees for your company the Department’s Employment Service can help
… more
Employment and skills programmes
Advice for jobseekers and employers on employment and recruitment programmes that aim to deliver a skilled workforce to meet the needs of the Northern Ireland economy
… more
Employment rights
Free and confidential help with employment rights is available from Labour Relations Agency for employers and employees. The Department provides online guidance on employment rights on nidirect for employees and nibusinessinfo for employers
… more
European funding
Advice on the European Social Fund (ESF) programme 2014-2020 in Northern Ireland. The Department is the managing authority for ESF in Northern Ireland and provides advice on all aspects of the Programme including how to apply, ESF guidance and support for successful projects.
… more
Higher education
Information and advice on higher education including policy and strategy, finance governance, student finance and research policy.
… more
Further education
Advice on all aspects of further education including policy, courses, how to apply and financial support available
… more
DEL statistics and research
Research and statistical publications on the labour market information and training and employmentment programme statistics are available on communities-ni.gov.uk all other DEL statistics and research publications have transferred to economy-ni.gov.uk
nidirect
nibusinessinfo.co.uk
GOV.UK
