JISC Digital Enhanced Patchwork Text Assessment Project (DePTA) | Patchwork Text Assessment is a method of assessment where students complete a series of separate small pieces of work which are discussed with peers as each piece is produced: The final summative piece is a reflective synopsis of the learning that the individual draws from undertaking these patches and from peer feedback. Digital enhancement uses learning technologies to broaden the scope of work in each of the patches beyond text and facilitate communication between peers and tutors.
JISC Digital Enhanced Patchwork Text Assessment Project (DePTA)
Patchwork Text Assessment is a method of assessment where students complete a series of separate small pieces of work which are discussed with peers as each piece is produced: The final summative piece is a reflective synopsis of the learning that the individual draws from undertaking these patches and from peer feedback. Digital enhancement uses learning technologies to broaden the scope of work in each of the patches beyond text and facilitate communication between peers and tutors.
Skip to content
HomeAn overviewCase StudiesDisseminationProject Methodology
Welcome
Posted on January 23, 2012 | Leave a comment
This project was designed to develop the use and effectiveness of digitally supported patchwork text assessments in a range of traditional academic subjects within different Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). It was funded under the JISC Learning and Teaching Innovation Grants for a twelve month period between June 2010 and July 2011. It was co-ordinated, managed and delivered by the University of Cumbria.
In addition to the University of Cumbria, the project brought together four partner HEIs: University of Liverpool, University of Derby, University of Bedfordshire, University of Wolverhampton;
and The Centre for Recording Achievement (CRA).
Project Manager
Caroline Marcangelo
email: caroline.marcangelo@cumbria.ac.uk
DePTA Project Consultant
Sarah Chesney
email: sarahchesney@me.com
DePTA Project Partners
University of Derby
Karen Clubb
email: k.clubb@derby.ac.uk
University of Bedfordshire
Dr Alfredo Gaitan email: Alfredo.Gaitan@beds.ac.uk
University of Wolverhampton
Megan J Lawton email: M.J.Lawton@wlv.ac.uk
Wendy Nicholls email: W.Nicholls@wlv.ac.uk
University of Liverpool
Lynn Moran email: lmoran@liv.ac.uk
Anthony Sinclairemail: A.G.M.Sinclair@liverpool.ac.uk
Janet Strivens email: strivens@liverpool.ac.uk
University of Cumbria
David Penny email: david.penny@cumbria.ac.uk
Centre for Recording Achievement (CRA)
Rob Ward
email: rob@recordingachievement.org
Leave a comment
Posted in Uncategorized
Search It!
Search for:
Recent Entries
Welcome
Links
CDEPP
CRA
JISC
JISC Digitally Enhanced Patchwork Text Assessment
WORDPRESS Log In
Blog at WordPress.com.
