Home - EPSRC website
Desktop View
|
Skip Nav
Accessibility
Disability tools
Disability ruler (Off)
Normal colours (On)
High contrast (Off)
Blue/Black contrast (Off)
Cream/Black contrast (Off)
Media Enquiries
Communities login
Opens EPSRC blog
Opens external site
Opens external site
Opens external site
Opens external site
Search:
Show Search
Search:
Main Navigation
Toggle navigation
Home
Funding
Research
Innovation
Skills
News, events and publications
About us
Blog 20 Feb 2017
A new modern Industrial Strategy - investing in science, research and innovation
EPSRC Deputy Chief Executive, Professor Tom Rodden, shares his thoughts on the Industrial Strategy and what it means for EPSRC-funded researchers.
Read more about A new modern Industrial Strategy - investing in science, research and innovation
call: Invitation for proposals 17 Feb 2017
Announcement of Opportunity: India-UK Water Quality
The Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and India's Department of Science & Technology (DST), jointly invite proposals to a new three-year research programme to improve water quality.
Read more about Announcement of Opportunity: India-UK Water Quality
Quick links
EPSRC Blog
Calls
Visualising our Portfolio
Grants on the Web (GoW)
EPSRC Twitter Feed
@EPSRC - 8 hours agoRT @UKinBoston: Nearly 30% of 🇬🇧 international co-authored papers are w/🇺🇸, producing impact of 50% ⬆️ than UK research base avg #ResearchI…
@EPSRC - 8 hours agoRT @UKinBoston: The UK 🇬🇧 & US 🇺🇸 are partners of choice in research, science & innovation #AAASmtg #ResearchIsGREAT #GlobalBritain https:/…
@EPSRC - 8 hours agoRT @tamerajones: The ever popular @sabinehauert of @BristolUni on robot swarms on the @research_uk stand #AAASmtg #researchisgreat https://…
@EPSRC - 13 hours agoWhat is our future with robots? Hear what @sabinehauert has to say at #AAASmtg today. #ResearchIsGreat https://t.co/9CTLP1JsBc
media: Video 16 Feb 2017
Connecting Your Ideas to Our Strategies
We have committed to a balanced research portfolio of 60% community-driven research and 40% strategic intervention, by 2021. Find out how your research can make a difference...
Read more about Connecting Your Ideas to Our Strategies
news: Press Release 15 Feb 2017
EPSRC publishes Balancing Capability results
The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), after extensive engagement and dialogue with the research community, today published refreshed research area rationales as part of its Balancing Capability strategy.
This article relates to the following themes
All themes
Read more about EPSRC publishes Balancing Capability results
media: Video 14 Feb 2017
The importance of Balancing Capability for UK science
Why Balancing Capability is important for UK science and a theme perspective on the approach taken to renewing the research area strategies.
Read more about The importance of Balancing Capability for UK science
media: Video 14 Feb 2017
Balancing Capability – Council's view and the process
How EPSRC gathered strategic advice and how the strategy is used in practice.
Read more about Balancing Capability – Council's view and the process
Blog 13 Feb 2017
Balancing Capability - The Process and Challenges
As the outcomes of the Balancing Capability project are published on 15 February, we hear from EPSRC Engineering SAT Chair Dr Ruth Mallors-Ray, on how the project was achieved and the challenges faced by the team on this journey.
Read more about Balancing Capability - The Process and Challenges
media: Video 13 Feb 2017
Balancing Capability in an EPSRC theme
How research area strategies and trajectories were refreshed to take account of evolving circumstances during the last Delivery Plan.
Read more about Balancing Capability in an EPSRC theme
news: Announcement 10 Feb 2017
Essential website maintenance
Due to system maintenance this website may be unavailable on Tuesday 14 February 2017 from 09:30-10:30 (GMT).
Read more about Essential website maintenance
news: Media Coverage 09 Feb 2017
First practical blueprint for universal quantum computer could have revolutionary impact
Team led by UK scientist unveils first blueprint for large-scale quantum computer.
This article relates to the following themes
Digital economy ICT Quantum technologies
Read more about First practical blueprint for universal quantum computer could have revolutionary impact
news: Announcement 08 Feb 2017
Possible website outage
Due to system maintenance this website may be unavailable on Saturday 11 February 2017 from 09:00-14:00 (GMT).
Read more about Possible website outage
News 07 Feb 2017
EPSRC to study diversity and inclusion barriers in ICT research
Why do many women not continue a career in ICT research? What are the barriers faced by some minority groups, such as black and ethnic minorities, in pursuing an ICT research career? These are among the questions being considered in a study commissioned by the EPSRC.
This article relates to the following themes
ICT
Read more about EPSRC to study diversity and inclusion barriers in ICT research
call: Invitation for proposals 06 Feb 2017
QuantERA Call 2017
The QuantERA consortium, of which EPSRC is a member, is pleased to announce its first call for proposals in the field of Quantum Information and Communication Sciences & Technologies (Q-ICST).
This article relates to the following themes
Quantum technologies
Read more about QuantERA Call 2017
call: Invitation for proposals 03 Feb 2017
Supergen Leaders - Bioenergy
This is the first of a two stage process designed to launch the next phase of the Supergen Programme, designed to identify the 'Research Leader' for a Supergen Bioenergy hub.
This article relates to the following themes
Energy
Read more about Supergen Leaders - Bioenergy
call: Invitation for proposals 03 Feb 2017
Supergen Leaders - Energy Networks
This is the first of a two stage process designed to launch the next phase of the Supergen Programme, designed to identify the 'Research Leader' for a Supergen Energy Networks hub.
This article relates to the following themes
Energy
Read more about Supergen Leaders - Energy Networks
Connect with EPSRC
Opens EPSRC blog
Opens external site
Opens external site
Opens external site
Opens external site
About EPSRC
The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) is the UK's main agency for funding research in engineering and the physical sciences. EPSRC invests around £800 million a year in research and postgraduate training, to help the nation handle the next generation of technological change.
opens external site
opens external site
Quick links
Home
Funding
Research
Innovation
Skills
News, events and publications
About us
Cymraeg Copyright Help Cookies (privacy) Contact us Terms of use Freedom of information Site map
©Copyright 2017.
Access Keys:
Skip navigation (access key S)
Home page (access key 1)
What's new (access key 2)
Site map (access key 3)
Search (access key 4)
Help (access key 5)
Contacts (access key 7)
Terms and conditions (access key 8)
Feedback form (access key 9)
Access key details (access key 0)
