Florence Nightingale Foundation
The Florence Nightingale Foundation - Registered in England and Wales with Charity Reg No. 229229 and in Scotland with Charity Reg No. SC044341
A company Limited by Guarantee Registration No. 518623
Florence Nightingale Foundation
For us who nurse, our nursing is a thing which, unless we are making progress every year, every month, every week, take my word for it, we are going back...
Florence Nightingale
Home The Foundation Events Scholarships Support Us Contact Links Alumni
The Florence Nightingale Foundation awards Scholarships to advance the study of nursing and to promote excellence in practice. About the Foundation »
Latest News
Nightingale Awards 2017
South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust's annual Nightingale Awards will be held in May. Enter your nominations for the awards by March 6th by clicking here... Read more »
Round-Up: FNF Annual Conference and Gala Dinner 2017
On Friday 3rd February 2017, The Florence Nightingale Foundation held its seventh Annual Conference and Charity Gala Dinner at the atmospheric Guoman Tower Hotel in London.
This year’s theme was In It Together... Read more »
Join In
Tweets by @FNightingaleF
Upcoming Events
May
17
Commemoration Service 2017
A Service to commemorate the life of Florence Nightingale
Read more »
Current Scholarships
Research Scholarships
Research Scholarships are available to Nurses and Midwives who have current registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council and who work and who are resident in the United Kingdom. They are awarded for projects which will be of direct benefit to patients and the profession more widely. Read more »
Travel Scholarships
Travel Scholarships provide a real opportunity to study good practice elsewhere in the UK and/or overseas to enhance patient/user care in the UK.
Read more »
Leadership Scholarships
Would you like to take your career to the next level?
The Florence Nightingale Foundation is offering Leadership and Emerging Leaders' Scholarships to those who want to become leaders with the skills and self-confidence to contribute positively and with some significance to the rapidly changing world of healthcare.
Read more »
Programmes for Commissioners
Leading Compassionate Care - a development programme for clinical nurse leaders
Read more »
Leading Compassionate Care - West Midlands
Read more »
All content © Florence Nightingale Foundation. Website and event management by Glasgows
