GROWL VRE Project
GROWL VRE Demonstrator
Search:
Text size:
GROWL Home
The GROWL project is a framework in which we can develop and
evaluate Grid services in environments familiar to many scientific
programmers.
A need has been identified for a client toolkit which can provide
very light-weight but extensible access to Grid resources (owls are
very light and quiet for their size). We are therefore initially
creating libraries in C/ C++ and R, interfacing to a set of existing
services derived from HPCPortal, DataPortal and InfoPortal which are
part of IeSE, the CCLRC Integrated e-Science Environment. It
should be possible to install this library on a variety of client
workstations with a minimum of additional software.
This Web site gives the background, some examples and links to
installation details for the C and R versions of GROWL.
News of progress here.
Status of GROWL modules.
GROWL User Manual (draft).
GROWL
Portal interface.
Sakai
worksite for this project.
Current News
GROWL Scripts
download
NW-GRID Training
Event - Daresbury, Jan 25/26th 2007
Lightweight Grid Computing
Workshop - Castleton, May 2006
INTRODUCTION
BIBLIOGRAPHY
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
CONDITIONS OF USE
QUICK REFERENCE
EXAMPLES
BASE ROUTINES AND FILES
AUTHENTICATION
FILES
GIZMOS
JOBS
NETSOLVE
R
Rcommands
RESOURCES
SRB
TRANSFER
About this document ...
Background
GROWL is a client interface to a Grid programming environment. Its
ongoing development will continue to form part of CCLRC's Integrated
e-Science Environment, IeSE, project. GROWL is IeSE with teeth
(owls are hunters).
IeSE also includes the development of Web-based
portal interfaces: HPCPortal, InfoPortal and DataPortal and more
importantly their underlying services. GROWL provides an alternative
light-weight interface to some of these services.
This was originally not funded, but has now received funding from
JISC. It is not drag'n'drop, not yet good computer science, nor best
practice and is still a research project. It is Hand Knitted
Software. If you have comments, questions or suggestions please
contact the authors.
GROWL is a purely client-side Grid programming environment, it does
not help you to create Web or Grid services. It does not help you put
your computer on the Grid. The software and functionality is kept to a
minimum for ease of installation and use. Some background information
and the research agenda for the project are documented in these
separate reports:
Towards tractable toolkits for the Grid: a plea for light-weight,
usable middleware.
[HTML]
Programming the Grid: User Interfaces and Functionality
[HTML]
Programming the Grid: Portal Services Documentation
[HTML]
System Requirements and Dependencies
You do not need to have root access to install GROWL and you do not
need to open any firewall ports!
A definate aim of this project is to keep the number of dependencies
to a minimum. This is to enable GROWL to be installed on a normal
Linux or other Unix workstation with a standard-compliant C compiler
and Perl interpreter. It can be installed alongside a Grid-enabled
application which uses the GROWL C libraries. There are however
certain new functions which currently have to be carried out on the client
workstation and some additional software has to be installed to
make this possible. So far GROWL is distributed with installation
scripts and source for the following packages:
GROWL source and portable build system using make
Globus v2.4.3 - only the GPT (packaging) and GSI (security)
packages are used
- needs Perl and gcc (or equivalent). For the demonstrator we are
using VDT which is fully maintained.
OpenSSL v0.9.6i or later - this is included with the Globus GSI
package
gSOAP v2.1.10 orlater - C/C++ toolkit for Web services
- needs yacc or bison, flex and gcc (or equivalent)
SOAP::LITE - Perl Web service toolkit (optional, used for some of the
commands, but not essential)
- these need Perl
SRB Scommands - C client for Storage Resource Broker
Additional dependencies include:
A C compiler, e.g. gcc
Perl v5.8.1 or similar
A Yacc compiler, e.g. yacc or bison (optional)
The Flex lexical analysis toolkit (optional)
R v1.8.1 functional-programming environment (optional, if you want to use
the R interface)
Interfaces
GROWL is kept very simple to enable wrapping by a number of
interfaces. We currently have protoypes:
C library
R library
Helper scripts
See documentation and software pages for further details.
Functionality
This is evolving all the time with feedback from various users and
discussions at workshops. Tell us what you need and we will think of a
way to make it work within the GROWL framework! We already have input
from colleagues working in the areas of Bio-informatics, Chemistry,
Physics and Social Science.
Download and Installation
Downloads are not yet available. This site will be updated as soon as
wider testing begins. See download page
for further details.
Acknowledgements
The GROWL project is currently funded by JISC under its programme
for developing a Virtual Research Environment.
Some additional
funding is from CCLRC via the OSI. Recently GROWL has been included in
the ESRC e-Infrastructure project and additional funding will enable
it to eb deployed and adapted to meet their requirements.
The digital image used on this page is of Molly, a rather
photogenic owl who appears in (at least one of) the Harry Potter
films. Molly is a Canadian Great Grey Owl (Strix
Nebulosa). She lives at the Hawk Conservancy, Andover,
Hampshire. You can find out about the species via the original Web
site, and see her flying at the conservancy. The DHD Multimedia
Gallery site is maintained by Damon Hart-Davis in London and
provides free downloads of a variety of high quality images.
See http://gallery.hd.org/index.jsp
and
http://gallery.hd.org/_exhibits/natural-science/_more2003/_more08/bird-great-grey-owl-staring-intently-SEW.jpg
Site is developed and maintained by R.J. Allan
"Hand Knitted Software" 2005-6
Last Modified: Tuesday, 02-Jan-2007 10:39:09 GMT
