HostUK :: Home
welcoming international students
Menu
HomeInternational StudentsAbout HOST visitsHow to ApplyStudent StoriesLinksHostsAcademic InstitutionsThe OrganisationAbout HOSTWork With UsSupport UsNewsContact UsSecure Area
International Students and UK Hosts Welcome to HOST
HOST introduces international students to people who live in Britain
Through HOST, students from all over the world studying at UK universities can meet kind, hospitable people in their homes; enjoy home-cooked meals; explore parts of the country that public transport doesn't reach; discover new things about our language, customs and way of life; and make friends.
Hosts meet interesting, well-educated adults keen to talk about their own culture; look at their own country through other eyes; and have the pleasure of offering a worthwhile experience and a little home-from-home for a short time, to people far from their own families.
HOST visits can be for a day, a weekend, or 3 days at Christmas. Their significance for  hosts and guests is much greater than their length suggests. So, why not meet each other, learn to understand one another, and make the world a kinder, friendlier, more welcoming place?
International Students
You can experience the way of life in the UK as the guest of one of our friendly approved hosts who live in many different parts of Britain.Read More...
International StudentsYou can experience the way of life in the UK as the guest of one of our friendly approved hosts who live in many different parts of Britain.
HOST promotes international friendship and understanding by arranging for international students at British universities to meet UK residents in their homes.
Interested in hosting?
HOST is always looking for friendly volunteers who would like to welcome one or two international students to their home for a day, weekend or Christmas visit. You do not need to live near a university.Read More...
Interested in hosting?HOST is always looking for friendly volunteers who would like to welcome one or two international students to their home for a day, weekend or Christmas visit. You do not need to live near a university.
Academic institutions
What we can do for you Apply to join us
General information for subscribers
ISA News
Support us
HOST is an unusual charity, but like all voluntary organisations, we rely on support from people who appreciate the value of what we do. Please click read more below to find out more!Read More...
Support usHOST is an unusual charity, but like all voluntary organisations, we rely on support from people who appreciate the value of what we do. Please click read more below to find out more!
Work with us
HOST always has vacancies for volunteers, sometimes interns and occasionally a paid post is available. Click read more if this interests you!Read More...
Work with usHOST always has vacancies for volunteers, sometimes interns and occasionally a paid post is available. Click read more if this interests you!
What's new at HOST?
HOST Matters
HOST Parties
They stayed in touch
The HOST Team
Meet the people who work for HOSTRead More...
The HOST TeamMeet the people who work for HOST
Contact us
HOST UK, Sylvia Adams House, 24 The Common, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 0NB
Tel: 0207739 6292
Email Us!
Quicklinks
Home
International Students
Hosts
Academic Institutions
Work with us
Support Us
News
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Get in Touch
HOST UK, Sylvia Adams House, 24 The Common, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 0NBTel: 0207 739 6292Contact Us!
Designed by OceanWeb Ltd ©
2017 HostUK Host UK. All rights reserved. admin
HOST UK is a charity (Reg Charity No 327592) and a company limited by guarantee (2179430 England and Wales). VAT No 842748994
