Integrated Research Input & Output System 2 | IRIOS-2 is a project funded under Strand 3 of JISC's Research Information Management Programme
Integrated Research Input & Output System 2
IRIOS-2 is a project funded under Strand 3 of JISC's Research Information Management Programme
Home
About IRIOS-2
IRIOS-2 Partners
IRIOS-2 Team
IRIOS-2 Service Launches
November 13, 2012
Paul Leave a comment
The final IRIOS-2 service is now live at https://irios2.unis4ne-system.net. A comprehensive user guide can be downloaded via a link on the login screen.
The system currently includes grants from NERC and EPSRC, where the universities of Sunderland, Glasgow, St Andrews (IRIOS-2 partners), Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria and Teesside (members of Universities for the North East) are either the grant holder or grant partner.
A guest account is available which gives read-only access to all grants:
Username = GUEST
Password = guest
With this account, you are able to filter/browse grants and export to CERIF.
If you are a member of staff at any of the above institutes, individual accounts can be created which will give you access to more system functionality (e.g. import outputs, record Open Access information and link outputs to grants). Please email such requests to irios@unis4ne-system.net
Please also direct comments/questions/feedback to the above email address.
Categories: CERIF, Deliverable, IRIOS
D5.2 Workshop Report
November 6, 2012
ryanhend24 Leave a comment
The IRIOS-2 workshop was held in Jesmond on 18th October and the project team was able to provide a live demonstration of the service.
The workshop afforded us the perfect opportunity to assess IRIOS-2 im a commercial light, and we were able to explore options of offering the service to other ROs in the near future.
Feedback from those in attendance was positive and discussions were informative and interesting.
D5 2 Workshop Report
Categories: Sunderland
D4.2 Evaluation Report
November 6, 2012
ryanhend24 Leave a comment
The IRIOS-2 project is now officially completed and with these the future of the service needs to be resolved.
The Evaluation Report addresses testing of the service, how we looked at addressing open access and how we plan to exploit the service going forward.
D4 2_Evaluation_Report
Categories: Sunderland
IRIOS2 Workshop in Action!
October 30, 2012
Scott Brander Leave a comment
The final IRIOS2 project meeting (a joint meeting with the C4D project) was held in St Andrews today and a number of useful discussions took place regarding Open Access and sustainability of the work done in IRIOS2.
Categories: Sunderland
IRIOS-2 Final Workshop – Posters
October 22, 2012
ryanhend24 Leave a comment
The IRIOS-2 and C4D project posters used at the workshop are now available to view and download.
Additional to keep up to date with C4D developments go to out project blog, http://cerif4datasets.wordpress.com/.
C4D_Poster
IRIOS-2_Poster
Categories: Sunderland
Use Cases and Testing Plan
October 22, 2012
ryanhend24 Leave a comment
Earlier in IRIOS-2 we submitted a testing plan, this was used to conduct testing on the IRIOS-2 service with results of the testing forthcoming very soon.
The attached document includes the final testing plan as well as the IRIOS-2 user guide, while this is not to be submitted as a deliverable this document does provide the ability for system users to see the user guide and try out the service.
Use cases and testing plan
Any comments on this are welcome.
Categories: Sunderland
IRIOS-2 Final Workshop
October 19, 2012
ryanhend24 1 comment
Yesterday we held the final IRIOS-2 workshop at Jesmond Dene Conference Centre in Newcastle, the turn out of this event was good and discussions held were interesting and enlightening especially with regards to the next steps for IRIOS-2.
A workshop report will be produced and made available via this blog in due course, we will also look to have the users guide and IRIOS-2 system available to test for all who are interested early next week.
Presentations from the workshop can be found below:
Welcome and Introduction – Ryan Henderson (University of Sunderland, Project Manager)
IRIOS-2 Project Overview – Kevin Ginty (University of Sunderland, Technical Manager)
CIA Project Overview – Scott Brander (University of St Andrews, Project Manager)
IRIOS-2 Live Demonstration – Paul Cranner (University of Sunderland, Lead Systems Developer)
Many thanks to all the presenters and attendees for your input, we now hope to investigate what the next step will be for IRIOS-2.
Anyone wishiing to be added to the mailing list for updates please contact Ryan Henderson (ryan.henderson@sunderland.ac.uk) and watch this space for additional developments between now and the project closure (Oct 31) and beyond.
Categories: Sunderland
Older Entries
RSS feed
Google
Youdao
Xian Guo
Zhua Xia
My Yahoo!
newsgator
Bloglines
iNezha
Subscribe
Enter your email address to receive notifications of new posts by email.
Recent Posts
IRIOS-2 Service Launches
D5.2 Workshop Report
D4.2 Evaluation Report
Categories
C4D (8)
CERIF (16)
Deliverable (3)
Dissemination (5)
Downloads (1)
EPSRC (8)
euroCRIS (11)
Glasgow (17)
IRIOS (20)
JISC (12)
NERC (11)
RMAS (6)
St Andrews (10)
Sunderland (33)
Archives
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
Blogroll
Cerif for Datasets (C4D)
CERIF in Action
IRIOS
JISC
Research Clusters
Research Outcomes
Top
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Integrated Research Input & Output System 2
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
