MathTran - Translation of Mathematical content
MathTran - Home
Home
Project
Links
Contact
Introduction
MathTran is a JISC
funded project to provide translation of mathematical
content as a web service.
This pages here provide information about the project.
We have set up a separate MathTran server
that which will offer translation of mathematical content as a web service.
This project will started on 1 December 2006, and finish on 30 June 2007.
Mathematical Content
Mathematical content presents particular difficulties in both print and electronic media.
Accented and non-latin characters used to cause electronic difficulties, until Unicode replaced
the previous 8-bit (256 possible values) character sets. Now it is possible to cut and paste
Greek, for example, from a web page and into a Word document. But not mathematics.
The project will contribute to the program by easing the problems caused by mathematical
content in electronic media. We expect its contribution to grow over time, as its key tools
become more widely accepted.
The Ideal Solution
An ideal solution would
Accept LaTeX input
Use TeX typography
Convert to and from MathML
Provided graphics outputs in multiple formats
Be efficient, and support interactive (instant preview or wysiwyg) use
Run everywhere, from web server to stand-alone PC
Handle the full range of published mathematical constructions
Integrate with other applications, e.g. that need to edit or display mathematical content
Where we are now
The Higher Education community is a long way from having an ideal solution.
There is at present a patchwork of partial solutions. The most widespread solution,
for print, is to use LaTeX in the traditional way. This fails, for electronic media,
on 3, 5, 6 and 8. It is also very closely tied to using LaTeX not only for the mathematics
but also the text. Our proposal will address these points but will leave further work on
6 and 7 to realise the ideal solution.
There is, of course, pressure to remedy the deficits in any partial solution. This can lead
to unanticipated and uncomfortable programming requirements, or worse development dead ends.
To learn more
Further information can be found on the Project page
on this site, and on the
MathTran
page at JISC.
Alternatively, you might like to read the
project proposal (PDF, 117Kb).
Copyright Š 2007 The Open University
