Marine Protected Areas
Warning!   QuickMenu may have been blocked by IE-SP2's active content option. This browser feature blocks JavaScript from running locally on your computer.This warning will not display once the menu is on-line.
To enable the menu locally, click the yellow bar above, and select "Allow Blocked Content".To permanently enable active content locally...1: Select 'Tools' --> 'Internet Options' from the IE menu.2: Click the 'Advanced' tab.3: Check the 2nd option under 'Security' in the tree (Allow active content to run in files on my computer.)
The information resource for Marine Protected Areas practitioners
Home
About MPAs
About MPAs
Frequently Asked Questions
Marine Conservation Zones
UK MPAs
News
Resources
Browse References
Search References
Topic Notes
Case Studies
Presentations
Glossary
Links
Forum
UK Marine SACs Project
Contact Us
Contributors
What's New
New Features:
The Mapper page has been updated to include links to Regulation 33(2) documentation for Natura 2000 European Marine Sites, where available. We are currently working to include links to management schemes as well!
New reference: Natural England has released its report on "Meeting the MPA Network Principle of Viability ".
New case study: A study of the management of the Fal and Helford Special Area of Conservation by the MCS.
The UK Marine Protected Areas Centre
The UK Marine Protected Areas Centre is a resource for information and news on Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) in the UK (including the Crown Dependencies of the Channel Isles and Isle of Man). The website draws together resources that will help to build capacity amongst UK MPAs practitioners and facilitates sharing information, good practice and learning. Through this site you can:
Get the latest MPA news (including events, legislation and new research)
Read and upload examples of best practice and case studies
Use the fora to discuss topics and issues with other practitioners
Search the extensive reference library catalogue relating to MPA research and recent reports
Find useful presentations and images to download
Use the interactive map to guide you to site based information on MPAs, including their designations, habitats, species and activities.
Link to existing websites of individual European Marine Sites, other MPAs and to partner websites.
If you would like to be involved or require further information then please contact us at info@ukmpas.org.uk.
Please note the UK MPA Centre is not funded at present and, as a result, we do not have the resources to actively seek and develop content for the website at present. We will endeavour to update the website with new information where staff time allows and, as ever, continue to accept suggestions for news articles etc. We are actively seeking additional funds and would like to hear from you about funding opportunities.
Latest News:
© UK Marine Protected Areas Centre 2007. | Accessibility | Privacy | Terms and Conditions
