ANNE Wafula STRIKE MBE - Athlete, author and sporting ambassador
LinkedIn
Twitter
Facebook
HomeAboutVideo
& PhotosContact
/ Bookings
Online Shop
News & Events
Public Speaking
Services
Public Speaking
Projects
Information
Diary / Public Events
Olympia-Wafula
Foundation
'In My Dreams I
Dance'
Tweets by @Anne_W_Strike
Anne Wafula Strike MBE
'Inspiring Achievement, Encouraging Excellence ...'
Anne Wafula Strike MBE, provides a personal example of courage, commitment
and determination that challenges misconceptions about disability.
Athlete, author, and sporting ambassador, Anne inspires achievement and
excellence across a broad range of life situations through motivational
talks and appearances that encourages others to overcome difficulties and
maximise their potential.
Winner of TV Sports Awards 2016
Press Release (PDF)
Anne Wafula Strike awarded MBE
Anne was awarded MBE (Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British
Empire) in recognition to her services towards Disability Sport and
Charity work at Buckingham Palace.
Click here for full article
2012 - Paralympic Games, TV appearances and theatre performance
"2012 was a very successful and exciting year with the Olympic and Paralympic Games coming
to London. It was a big honour to be one of the 580 people taking part in
the torch relay, being one of the ITV London Tonight commentary team, and
being at hand for expert insites on Paralympic Games for BBC World TV.
Also my debut performance at the Royal Festival Hall / Southbank Centre with the Graeae
Theatre Company show - Snowballs and Sequin, as one of Rhinstone
Rollers."
Talking about Forgiveness
Be sure to keep checking this page as I will be talking about FORGIVENESS.
It is true, that when we FORGIVE, we release negative ties that bind us
…and we pave room for a brighter future by freely moving on.
'Tough Mudder' for Africa
Anne embarked on an extra ordinary journey as she tackled one
of the most difficult assault courses in the world. Tough Mudder is not
for the faint hearted, and it's even more challenging when you are a
wheelchair user. With her teams support she tackled the obstacles and completed the challenge. Anne took on this challenge to raise funds for AbleChildAfrica.
See the ITV News article
'Cycle of Change Hand-bike Relay' - 66 miles for Haiti
Cycle of Change Hand-bike Relay
'In My Dreams I Dance' - Anne's Autobiography
In My Dreams I Dance is a powerful autobiographical account of adversity,
endurance, and accomplishment. A natural storyteller with an excellent
command of language, Anne’s journey from Kenya to Britain is punctuated
with anecdotes of prejudice, friendship, and motherhood, leading to
triumph over testing circumstances.
Buy book online (paperback or Kindle)
Speaking Engagements
Anne Wafula Strike, MBE, is an excellent motivational speaker who draws on her own life experiences and achievements to inspire her audiences. Anne is not afraid to use humour to get her message across!
From contracting polio as a very small child,
you learn of the many struggles she had to overcome in Kenya to achieve her first goal of getting an education and going to university to become a first class teacher herself.
After the birth of her son, Tim, she took up sport and became a Paralympian within 3 years and had a distinguished career in wheelchair racing, which saw her travel the world to compete against her peers.
If you would like to book Anne as a speaker, please click here.
HomeAboutContact
