Olympic torch route revealed
Cookies on the IWCP website
This website uses cookies to improve the usability of the site. By continuing to browse our site you agree to our use of cookies. To find out more about the cookies we use or to disable any cookies, visit our cookies page.
IWCP Online
Marketplace
IWCP Gallery
yoppul
IWCP Archive
News & Articles
Family Announcements
News
Sport
Features
Entertainment
Info
Desk
Contact
Us
Advertising
Jobs
Motors
Property
Classifieds
Services
Obituaries
Wedding Reports
Olympic torch route revealed
By Ross Findon
Published on Monday, March 19, 2012 - 07:29
Map courtesy of Isle of Wight Council.
THE route the Olympic torch will take across the Isle of Wight has been revealed today (Monday) and the names of those who will carry have been announced.
The London 2012 Organising Committee (LOCOG) has confirmed the torch will arrive in Yarmouth on Saturday July 14, carried on a Wightlink ferry.
It is due to arrive in the town at 12.44pm, where a vehicle convoy will form, before setting off to the Needles at 1.04pm.
According to the Isle of Wight Council the first torchbearer will begin their run on Madeira Lane, Totland at 1.08pm and several bearers will carry the torch on its way to York Lane, where it is due to arrive at 1.23pm.
At 1.27pm another bearer will begin their run at The Needles Park at Alum Bay and the torch will be taken by chairlift to the seafront, before returning to the top at 1.58pm.
The torch convoy will make its way back to Yarmouth at 2.14pm and the torch will be carried through the town, going through Quay Street, Pier Street, the High Street, Baskett's Lane, Tennyson Road and The Mount.
At 2.23pm it will then be taken towards Carisbrooke where the next torchbearer will carry the flame at 2.38pm along Gunville Road.
The torch will be then be carried by several bearers from Gunville Road, along Carisbrooke High Street and through Newport town centre, where it will head down the High Street towards Coppins Bridge.
From there it will be carried along Fairlee Road to Medina College at 3.17pm, which will be hosting the Isle of Wight Primary School Games.
The torch will then be carried towards East Cowes, where it will be carried through the grounds of Osborne House coming out onto The Avenue at 3.50pm. It will then be carried down onto York Avenue and Well Road before finishing at Red Funnel's vehicle yard.
The convoy will then board the ferry to Southampton, which is hosting an evening welcome event.
Details of who has been chosen to carry the torch will be announced by LOCOG, and more details about the torch visit to the Isle of Wight including detailed maps of where the torch will be carried is available on the council's website at www.iwight.com/olympictorchrelay
Scroll down to see the full route in detail or click here to view the PDF.
• Have you be chosen to carry the Olympic Torch on the Isle of Wight? Please get in touch by e-mailing ross.findon@iwcp.co.uk or phoning 01983 522210
Maps courtesy of Isle of Wight Council.
More News
Funding secures future of Isle of Wight world music festivalSunday, February 19, 2017
Harbour dredging delayed until after summerSunday, February 19, 2017
Footprint Trust appeals for Nationwide customers’ votesSunday, February 19, 2017
Isle of Wight charity in the driving seat thanks to Red FunnelSunday, February 19, 2017
Victim taken to hospital after blaze in ShanklinSaturday, February 18, 2017
Woman arrested after Coppins Bridge river crashSaturday, February 18, 2017
Decadeance organises new night for cancer charitySaturday, February 18, 2017
Ryde firefighters rising to Everest challengeSaturday, February 18, 2017
MP Andrew Turner backs wind turbine blades projectSaturday, February 18, 2017
Isle of Wight: What's on this weekendSaturday, February 18, 2017
1 -
2 -
3 -
4
Comments
Log-in or register to comment on this story. See our House Rules here.
Email:
Password:
Remember me
By ticking "Remember me" you agree to a cookie being stored on your computer - no personal data is shared.
Forgotten your password?
Any views or opinions presented in the comments above are solely those of the author and do not represent those of the Isle of Wight County Press.
Report Comment
Reason
Rule Breached
none
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
House Rules
Send Email
Go | Cancel
Edit Comment
Comment
Go | Cancel
Most Read
Woman arrested after Coppins Bridge river crashSaturday, February 18, 2017
Victim taken to hospital after blaze in ShanklinSaturday, February 18, 2017
Isle of Wight: What's on this weekendSaturday, February 18, 2017
MP Andrew Turner backs wind turbine blades projectSaturday, February 18, 2017
Harbour dredging delayed until after summerSunday, February 19, 2017
Tweets from @iwcponline/island-travel
Home
News
Obituaries
Video
Wedding Reports
Weddings
Wedding planner
Bridal fairs
Wedding dress guide
Veils and trains
Flowers
Favours
Sport
Football
Rugby
Hockey
Ice Hockey
Sailing
Cricket
Speedway
Island Games
Cowes Week
Sports videos
Features
Gardening
Wight Living
Property of the Week
Letters
Islanders Reunited
Looking Back
Nature Notes
Island Life
View From Here
Entertainment
Gig Guide
Events
Cinema Listings
Stage Reviews
Music
Contact Us
Wedding Report Form
Subscriptions
Info Desk
Island Tides
Ferry Times
Traffic Information
Useful Numbers
Chemist Rota
Web Links
Advertising
Advertise on CP online
Submit your advert
Advertising information for CP newspaper
Advertise on weddings
Comments
Register to comment
House Rules
Terms of service
Jobs
Motors
Motors For Sale
Motoring News
On the Road
Property
Private Lettings
Classifieds
Marketplace
Family Announcements
Dating
IWCP v4.0 © Isle of Wight County Press 2017. All Rights Reserved. Web Design By Matrix Create.
Contact Us | Disclaimer
| Cookies | Links | Sitemap
Isle of Wight County Press Ltd. Registered office: Brannon House, 123 Pyle Street,
Newport, Isle of Wight PO30 1ST. Registered in England. Registered number: 1342243.
