Road to 2012 | Insight, Opinion, Interviews and Exclusives in the build up to the 2012 London Olympics
Road to 2012
Insight, Opinion, Interviews and Exclusives in the build up to the 2012 London Olympics
Home
About
Road to 2012 podcast
Interviews
Stars of 2012
London 2012 Venues
Sports Betting Community keeps Olympic Prospect’s Dream Alive
5
12
2011
GB Olympics hopeful Kelly Sibley has been granted a last-minute reprieve, courtesy of sports betting community site, OLBG.com.
As reported by the BBC, Kelly feared that her dream to compete at the London 2012 Olympics would be shattered unless she was able to secure sponsorship, having lost her funding from UK Sport.
Following the intervention of OLBG.com, the 22-year-old, who has represented England at the Commonwealth Games and is the reigning Ladies English National Table Tennis Champion, is now firmly on course to fulfill her ambition of participating at the Games.
OLBG, who have previously come to the aid of up-and-coming darts player Matt Edgar, will be supporting Kelly’s day-to-day finances as she continues full time training at the English Institute of Sport in Sheffield, where other Olympic prospects including heptathlete Jessica Ennis also train. They are also funding Kelly’s upcoming training trip to China.
Richard Moffat, Chief Operating Officer at OLBG.com, commented: ‘After speaking with Kelly, we felt this trip to China would enable her to train with the world’s best table tennis players and help her compete at her best at London 2012. Unfortunately there have been funding cuts for some GB Olympic hopefuls like Kelly, but we are only too pleased to step in and play our small part in helping Team GB have a successful London 2012.’
A delighted Kelly said: ‘I’m very grateful to OLBG for supporting me, especially funding the trip to China. This is a great opportunity to train with the best in the world and allow me to peak at the right time. With OLBG’s sponsorship in place I can now focus 100% on my training and strive to do my best, both for myself and my country.’
Kelly is available for media and press interviews; enquires can be made at her site KellySibley.com.
Comments : 1 Comment »
Tags: Kelly Sibley, London 2012, Matt Edgar, OLBG, Olympic sponsorship, Olympics, Table Tennis
Categories : London 2012 news, UK athletics
Welcome back!
25
05
2009
Hello again!
Apologies to our regular readers but we have been very busy here at Road to 2012. As you will know if you have read the ‘About’ section, we are all students, and the last month has been a hectic one, with exams being taken, and deadlines needing to be met. However that is all out of the way now, which means Road to 2012 can continue to bring you the best Olympic stories.
Let’s just fill you in on some of the news you may have missed over the last month.
* The IOC has approved a proposal to move boxing to Wembley during the Olympics, saving an estimated £20 million for organisers.
* Record crowds lined the streets for this year’s London Marathon to see Sammy Wanjiru of Kenya come home in a course record of 2 hours 5 minutes. They were also treated to Britain’s Mara Yamauchi (Japanese husband) finishing second in the women’s race.
* Olympic 1500m champion Rashid Ramzi (pictured right), was one of six athletes to test positives for a  new type of blood boosting drug.
* After we discussed it on the Road to 2012 podcast, Tom Daley was offered a scholarship to the exclusive Plymouth College, to avoid the bullying and jibes from his current schoolmates.
* Triple Olympic champion Usain Bolt was injured in a car crash, and had to undergo a small operation on his foot. However he recovered enough to win the Manchester Street Race in a record time.
* Former Olympic champion Jason Queally is to switch from able bodied racing to take part in the 2012 Paralympic Games, as a sighter for partially sighted rider Anthony Kappes.
Hope that has brought you up to speed with recent events, and hopefully the next update won’t take quite so long!
Comments : 2 Comments »
Tags: Anthony Kappes, Boxing, Jason Queally, London Marathon, Manchester Street Race, Mara Yamauchi, Paralympic Games, Rashid Ramzi, Sammy Wanjiru, Tom Daley, Usain Bolt, Wembley
Categories : London 2012 news, World Athletics News
Road to 2012 Podcast episode four goes live
26
04
2009
After a long easter break, the Road to 2012 podcasts are back with a bang.
Regular panellist Steve Moore is back, this week supported by Chris Evans. Have a listen, and afterwards cast your vote on one of this week’s main topics!
Take Our Poll
Comments : 1 Comment »
Tags: Athletics, Beijing, Bullying, London Marathon, Mascot, Paula Radcliffe, Tom Daley
Categories : Miscellaneous
Darius Knight talks exclusively to Road to 2012
25
04
2009
British table tennis’ No.2 Darius Knight talks to us about his plans for 2012, how table tennis got him off the streets, and why he has had to be independent since the age of 12.
He also gives his opinion on Robin Van Persie’s table tennis skills, and what got him into the sport in the first place.
Read it exclusively here at Road to 2012.
Darius shows off his racket skills!
Comments : 1 Comment »
Tags: Arsenal, Darius Knight, multi ball, Robin Van Persie, Sport, Table Tennis
Categories : Interviews
IOC live the life of luxury, but give London 10/10
23
04
2009
IOC inspectors have declared themselves ‘very pleased’ at the progress made by the London 2012 team.
The inspectors, who are in London to see how the build-up is progressing, awarded London 9.75 out of 10 on their last visit, and this time could be even better.
They were pleased that the city is coping so well in the financial crisis, and said that the city was ahead of previous hosts at a similar stage. On their second of three days in the capital, the inspectors visited the Olympic Stadium, Aquatic Centre and Velodrome, and were said to be pleased with all three.
IOC inspectors were pleased with London's progress
The committee urged LOCOG organisers to focus on ticketing, after empty seats became a common sight during the Beijing Games. However the major concern of the 2012 organisers will almost certainly be to show the visiting inspectors that they on on budget, and more importantly, on schedule.
But inevitably the visit could not pass without some sort of controversy. Liberal Democrat shadow Olympic minister Tom Blake criticised the IOC committee for taking the mickey with their accommodation and travel expenses. He said: “At a time when across the globe both people and governments are having to tighten their belts, there is simply no justification for officials luxuriating in five star hotels or being ferried around in limos.”
Unfortunately, whilst the high profile players in the IOC and LOCOG will all give the rhetoric about not blowing taxpayers money, their actions speak louder than their words.
I seriously doubt whether the IOC would mind bankrupting the country, as long as the Games run on time and they get to watch it from a five star room!
Comments : 1 Comment »
Tags: Aquatic Centre, Beijing Games, IOC, Liberal Democrat, LOCOG, London 2012, Olympic Stadium, Tom Blake, Velodrome
Categories : London 2012 news
London 2012 building work
21
04
2009
These are a few quick snapshots of the building work so far.
For a more detailed look at how the main building work is progressing, and what the structures will be used for after the games, check out the London 2012 Venues page!
Or if you just want to look at some nice pictures, have a look at the Road to 2012 Flickr photostream
Comments : Leave a Comment »
Tags: 2012 venues, Flickr, London 2012, photostream
Categories : London 2012 news
Daniel Keatings talks exclusively to Road to 2012
20
04
2009
Top British gymnast Daniel Keatings reveals all to Road to 2012 about his success at the European Championships, his gruelling schedule, and where he sees himself in three years time.
The Olympic finalist also reveals what first brought him into gymnastics, the toll training takes on his social life, and his simple attitude to eating healthily.
Read the interview exclusively at Road to 2012.
Comments : 4 Comments »
Tags: Daniel Keatings, European Championships, gymnastics, healthy eating
Categories : Interviews
« Previous Entries
Pages
About
Interviews
Craig Pickering
Daniel Keatings
Darius Knight
Luke Bridgman
London 2012 Venues
Road to 2012 podcast
Stars of 2012
Latest Athletics NewsI want 9.4secs at Olympics - BoltGB team 'can hit medal target'Athletes get Olympic ticket boostMutai to defend title after feverGebrselassie ends Olympic dream Road to 2012 on TwitterAn error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.
Take Our Poll
CategoriesCategories
Select Category
Interviews
London 2012 news
Miscellaneous
UK athletics
World Athletics News
Recent Posts
Sports Betting Community keeps Olympic Prospect’s Dream Alive
Welcome back!
Road to 2012 Podcast episode four goes live
Darius Knight talks exclusively to Road to 2012
IOC live the life of luxury, but give London 10/10
If you fancy a change from athletics...
British Tennis
Make over my mate
Ringside Boxing
The Caddy
Wrestling for Life
Top Athletics and Olympic Sites
BBC Athletics
Blogger the Jogger
International Olympic Committee
London 2012 official website
Sweat N Gears
Recent Comments
Melbourne Golf Cours… on Sports Betting Community keeps…London Olympic Deals… on Chinese fireworks to light up…London Olympic Deals… on Tee-off for Olympians in …jcrumba on Welcome back!Shureriabuh on Welcome back!
London 2012 - The building work
More Photos
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Road to 2012
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
