Wenlock Olympian Society, organisers of Wenlock Olympian Games
↓
Wenlock Olympian Society
Inspiration for the Modern International Olympic Games
Home
Menu ↓
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Olympian Games
Live Arts
History
Education
Olympian Trail
Photos
Videos
About
Contact
Welcome to Wenlock Olympian Society
Preserving the ideals of Dr William Penny Brookes – the inspiration for the modern Olympic Movement.
Chris Cannon – the Wenlock Olympian Society archivist has written an article for the journal of the International Society of Olympic Historians.  The article describes the background to the return of the four silver ‘Tilting at the Ring’ cups first awarded some 140 years ago to Charles Ainsworth.  These cups made there way to Zimbabwe before being returned to Much Wenlock last year.  The article can be found here: ISOH article.
Wenlock Olympian Games
The first Wenlock Olympian Games took place in 1850 and the next ones are scheduled for July 2017. Click below for details of the next event.
Read more
Jonathan Edwards CBE
Wenlock Olympian Society President, “It’s a great pleasure to welcome our many spectators and competitors – both local and national to the Wenlock Olympian Games”.
Read more
Live Arts Festival
The Live Arts Festival has taken place each year since 1979. Competitions were held in the performing arts as part of the original Olympic Games.
Read more
Wenlock Olympian Society
Founded in 1860 by William Penny Brookes “to provide annual competitions in sports and the arts for people of every grade”, a significant part of the modern International Olympic Games’ history…
Read more
Wenlock Olympian Trail
For those wishing to delve deeper into the remarkable Wenlock Olympian Society story there is now a designated walk around the town.
Read more
Share with
Like us on Facebook
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on TwitterMy TweetsOur Events
Archery
Athletics
Badminton
Fencing
Junior Football
Gliding
Golf
Hockey
Junior Biathlon
Kwik Cricket
Live Arts
Long Distance Walk
Half Marathon
Netball
Road Race
Touch Tennis
Triathlon
Volleyball
Member Login
Log in
© Wenlock Olympian Society, Website Design by www.virtual-shropshire.co.uk
↑
