BBC NEWS | UK | England | Bradford | Man claims Bronte portrait find
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
BBC NEWS CHANNEL
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 11:44 GMT, Wednesday, 12 August 2009 12:44 UK
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Man claims Bronte portrait find
Could this be Emily, Charlotte and Anne Bronte?
An art collector claims he has uncovered a rare portrait of the Bronte sisters painted by one of Britain's most famous Victorian artists.James Gorin von Grozny, from Devon, paid £150 for the work which he believes was painted by Sir Edwin Landseer in 1838. But art experts say Landseer would have had no call to paint the sisters who were not famous at that date. The only known portrait of the sisters was painted by their brother, Branwell. In the painting, the figure believed to be Emily Bronte holds a pen and notebook, whilst Charlotte stands and Anne looks away to one side. Mr Gorin von Gronzy had originally bought a different picture of three sisters from an auction house, but when he went to collect it, it had disappeared. He said the auction house offered him a refund, or the picture he now believes is of the Bronte sisters. 'Unheard of'Professor Francis O' Gorman, of the University of Leeds, an expert in Victorian Literature, said he was doubtful that the painting depicted the Bronte sisters. "The Brontes were unheard of outside their family circle in 1838. "There was nothing in the public domain which might have attracted one of the most famous painters of the early Victorian period to stop by and paint them", he said. However, Mr Gorin von Grozny said that Landseer could have travelled through the Brontes' home town of Haworth whilst visiting his friend John Nussey at Bolton Hall in Yorkshire.
Nussey was the also brother of Charlotte Bronte's friend Ellen. Mr Gorin von Gronzy said a small 'EL' monogram and the date 1838 visible in the crook of 'Charlotte's' arm, led to his belief that Landseer was the artist. Self-portrait clueIt is thought that the key to the painting's authenticity could lay in a sketch of a knee on the back of the portrait. The sketch apparently shows a leg with a three inch scar just below the knee. Mr Gorin von Grozny argued that a painting by Charlotte Bronte depicting a shepherdess, apparently with a similar scar on her leg, could have been a self-portrait. The painting of the shepherdess by Bronte, based on Solitude at Dawn by Johann Henry Fuseli, appeared in a book called The Art of the Brontes.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
BBC Bradford and West Yorkshire
Sport, travel, weather, things to do and more
BBC Devon
Sport, travel, weather, things to do, features and much more
SEE ALSO
Arterton 'takes Wuthering role'
16 May 09 |
Entertainment
Rare portrait on loan
28 Jul 08 |
England
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Bronte Parsonage Museum
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP BRADFORD STORIES
Rugby club sells ground for £50m
Students protest at closure plans
Knife threat while children slept
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Nesbitt: 'I'll transfer vote to SDLP'
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 19,214 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
