British Association for Romantic Studies - BARS - BARS Home Page
Welcome to BARS
The British Association for Romantic Studies (BARS) was set up in 1989 by academics to promote the study of the cultural history of the Romantic period. Since then, BARS has organised biennial International Conferences at various locations across the UK, has published the BARS Bulletin and Review twice-yearly, and currently has more than 400 members.
Page Navigation
Site Navigation
Page Content
Page Footer
Site Access Keys
A : Home Page
B : BARS International Conferences
C : The BARS Review
D : BARS Blog
E : BARS Exchange
F : Bursaries and Funding
G : Early Career and Postgraduate Matters
H : Resources and Links
I : Teaching Romanticism
J : BARS Executive Committee
K : How To Join
L : Mailbase and Contacts
Site Navigation
» Home Page
» BARS International Conferences
» The BARS Review
» BARS Blog
» BARS Exchange
» Bursaries and Funding
» Early Career and Postgraduate Matters
» Resources and Links
» Teaching Romanticism
» BARS Executive Committee
» How To Join
» Mailbase and Contacts
The British Association for Romantic Studies
The British Association for Romantic Studies (BARS) is the UK's leading national organization for promoting the study of Romanticism. With over 400 members worldwide, BARS acts as a hub for scholarship by supporting conferences, disseminating news and events, providing bursaries and prizes to early career researchers, publishing a Bulletin, and establishing links with sister organisations. It publishes news on its blog and maintains an aggregated feed collecting posts on Romantic studies. It also provides a voice for the subject area both within and beyond higher education. Its flagship events are biennial international conferences which are addressed by leading figures in the field of Romantic Studies and at which over one hundred scholars generally give papers.
In recent years, BARS has also extended its activities into a number of important new fields. It supports a series of biennial Early Career and Postgraduate Conferences, which provide an informal arena in which scholars can give and listen to academic papers and discuss their work with contemporaries. BARS funds the Stephen Copley Research Awards; applicants can apply for sums of up to £300 to help them with research expenses. There is an electronic mailbase for BARS members, informing them of worldwide conferences, events in the field and relevant new publications.
The BARS International Conference has a long history of successful four-day events.
Recent conferences have included Romantic Imports and Exports (University of Southampton, 2013), Enlightenment, Romanticism & Nation (University of Glasgow, 2011), Romantic Circulations (Roehampton University, 2009) and Emancipation, Liberation, Freedom, organised jointly with the North American Society for the Study of Romanticism (NASSR) (University of Bristol, 2007). The 14th International Conference, Romantic Imprints, will be held at
Cardiff University in 2015; the conference website is here. More details about past conferences can be found here.
The BARS Review is published twice-yearly on the BARS website and offers comprehensive reviews coverage of monographs, essay collections, biographies and other works which reflect the research interests of BARS members. Past reviews are available in the archive, and older reviews from the BARS Bulletin & Review, the currect review's predecessor publication, can be accessed through the Bulletin archive on this site.
We hope that you will consider becoming a BARS member and telling colleagues and postgraduates about BARS. For information on becoming a member of the Association, see the How to Join section of this site.
© 2013 BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR ROMANTIC STUDIES. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Site Accessibility | Site Map | Contact BARS
