BBC NEWS
| In Depth | Newsmakers
| Alice: Through a looking-glass darkly
NEWS
SPORT
WEATHER
WORLD SERVICE
A-Z INDEX
SEARCH
You are in: In Depth: Newsmakers
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Entertainment
Science/Nature
Technology
Health
-------------
Talking Point
-------------
Country Profiles
In Depth
-------------
Programmes
-------------
SERVICES
Daily E-mail
News Ticker
Mobile/PDAs
-------------
Text Only
Feedback
Help
EDITIONS
Change to UK
Friday, 30 November, 2001, 18:35 GMT
Alice: Through a looking-glass darkly
As the British Government temporarily blocks the export of photographs taken by the Victorian novelist Lewis Carroll of his muse, Alice Liddell, Andrew Walker of the BBC's News Profiles Unit examines the enduring, if sometimes disturbing, legacy of Alice in Wonderland.
On the afternoon of 4 July 1862, a mid-Victorian summer's day, a 29 year-old Church of England vicar, Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, went boating as he often did, on the Thames near Oxford, with three young daughters of a colleague.
Over a picnic he regaled them with his absurd and fantastic tales and one of the girls, 10 year-old Alice Liddell, was so enthralled that she entreated the young curate, pen-name Lewis Carroll, to put his stories down on paper.
Alice Liddell: Carroll's controversial muse
Finally published three years later, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, together with its sequel, Through the Looking Glass and What Alice Found There, re-defined children's literature.
With their vivid dream-like descriptions of the March Hare, the Mad Hatter's tea party and the Queen of Hearts, the books were a surreal odyssey the like of which had never been seen before.
They introduced a host of words to the English language including 'chortle' and 'galumph' and were re-discovered, and praised as masterpieces of psychedelic imagination, by the flower-children of the 1960s, being enshrined forever in Jefferson Airplane's drug-referenced song, White Rabbit.
21st Century obsession
Carroll's works endure to this very day, with numerous popular film and animated versions, the Royal Shakespeare Company's dramatisation adaptation of both books which has just opened in London's West End as well the recent publication of Katie Roiphe's fictional account of Dodgson's relationship with Alice, Still She Haunts Me.
Complex: Lewis Carroll
But behind the whimsy lies a very 21st Century obsession with the real nature of Lewis Carroll's fascination with pre-pubescent girls like Alice Liddell. Carroll, the bachelor Oxford mathematician with a terrible stammer, delighted in what he called his "child friends".
He invited many young girls to dine alone with him in his rooms at Christ Church, where Alice Liddell's father was Dean: "And would it be de rigeur", he wrote to one mother, "that there should be a third to dinner? Tête-à-tête is so much the nicest".
Most disturbing of all Carroll, a noted photographer, often took nude, or semi-nude, pictures of his young companions, something that today would run the risk of landing him in court accused of child abuse.
Export ban
Indeed, a world-wide child pornography ring, smashed in 1998, called itself the Wonderland Club.
Alice's adventures have captivated generations of children
One of these pictures, Alice Liddell as The Beggar Maid, is one of thirty glass negatives sold in June to an overseas buyer which the British Government has temporarily banned from being exported from the country to allow time for a British bid for the items.
To the modern mind Lewis Carroll may run close to being called a paedophile but, although he undoubtedly loved young girls, there is no clear evidence to show that this was a sexual obsession or that he acted upon it.
His feelings were complex and can be truly understood only in the context of his age.
Theme of change
The stuffy, tightly-corseted Victorian view of the emotions sits uneasily with the fully-realised and absurd world which is home to the Cheshire Cat and Humpty Dumpty. Owing more to Jonathan Swift than any 19th Century writer, it is satire, of the human, not political kind.
There have been many film adaptations of Carroll's books
All the creatures which populate Wonderland have something to say about the effects of time and change: the Caterpillar's metamorphosis from chrysalis to butterfly mirrors Alice's transformation from child to girl to woman, the Duchess's baby turns into a pig and the Mock Turtle laments that "once I was a real Turtle'."
Although Lewis Carroll and his works have been pored over by academics and critics, GK Chesterton's morose prophecy, that an over-analysis would render them "cold and monumental like a classic tomb" has happily not been realised.
Behind all the words, there is a feeling that, in his own tormented and nervous way, Carroll wished to recapture the innocence of his own childhood and see it enshrined in his books and young friends.
Relationship's abrupt end
Carroll's relationship with Alice Liddell ended abruptly in 1863 when her mother destroyed all his letters to her daughter. Lewis Carroll died a bachelor in 1898. Alice married, lost two of her three sons in World War I, and died in 1934.
Egged on: Humpty Dumpty on his wall
Whatever the truth about Carroll's love for his muse, the reality will probably never be known. The fictional Alice probably sums up the modern obsession with the friendship perfectly.
"Alice sighed wearily. 'I think you might do something better with the time,' she said, 'than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers'."
BBC News Online's weekend profile
Most recentBianca JaggerEllen MacArthurFrasierLord WoolfJames HewittNasser Hussein
See also:
08 Apr 98 | UK
The story of a Victorian genius
31 Oct 01 | Entertainment
'Alice' author exposed
07 Jun 01 | Entertainment
'Alice' sale tops £2m
Internet links:
Alice in Wonderland fan pageProject Gutenberg: Alice in Wonderland downloadThe Royal Shakespeare Company
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
Top Newsmakers stories now:
Bianca Jagger: Champion of peace
Phil Spector: Off the wall?
Ellen MacArthur: Back on the high seas
Frasier: Goodnight Seattle...
Lord Woolf: Wild about Harry
James Hewitt: Major Rat
Nasser Hussain: Captain Courageous
Richard Gere: On guard
Links to more Newsmakers stories are at the foot of the page.
E-mail this story to a friend
Links to more Newsmakers stories
In This Section
Bianca Jagger: Champion of peace
Phil Spector: Off the wall?
Ellen MacArthur: Back on the high seas
Frasier: Goodnight Seattle...
Lord Woolf: Wild about Harry
James Hewitt: Major Rat
Nasser Hussain: Captain Courageous
Richard Gere: On guard
Sir Paul: Yesterday and today
Jerry Springer: Stage set for more outrage
The growing pains of Charlotte Church
Will the real James Bond stand up?
Tom Paulin: Poetic polemicist
Wayne Hemingway: Earnest about design
Eyes on the Turner Prize
Gary Lineker: Fox on the box
Mike Leigh: Britain's Bergman
Sarah Waters: Tipped for the top
Bill Clinton: What Bill did next
Alan Greenspan: Market maestro
Damien Hirst: Shockaholic
The trouble with Harry
The Importance of Dame Judi
Tara Palmer-Tomkinson: Still got It?
Jamie Lee Curtis: The Body beautiful?
Leni Riefenstahl: Through a lens darkly
André Previn: Striking the right chord
Jordan: Fronting up
Alec Stewart: Still at the crease
Fatboy Slim: Right here, right now
Charles Saatchi: Artful adman
Paul Dirac: The unsung genius
John McEnroe: Big mouth strikes back
Rio Ferdinand: The silver lining
Julie Burchill: The Brighton Belle
Heather Mills: Can't buy me love
Punch: Out for the count?
Angus Deayton: Answering questions for a change
Jimmy Carter: Born again statesman
Ozzy Osbourne: Beverly Hills' Batty Brit
Ali Hewson: More than Mrs Bono
Henry Kissinger: Haunted by his past
Ian Fleming: The man behind Bond - and Chitty
Bob Guccione: Penthouse king laid low
Jeremy Hardy: Caustic comic
Michael Moore: Baseball-capped crusader
Clare Short: Divided she stands
Louis Farrakhan: Prophet or bigot?
David Starkey: Laughing all the way to the library
Christopher Reeve: Living in hope
Friends Reunited: We'll meet again?
Tom Wilkinson: Acting up In the Bedroom
London Underground: No transport of delight
Lord Foster: Stormin' Norman
Mike Tyson: Playing the monster
Jonathan Ive: Apple of the iMac
Sam Hammam: Love him or loathe him
ITV: Switching over
Pete Waterman: Lucky, lucky, lucky
Sara Payne: Calm crusader
Waking up with Katie Couric
Peter Jackson: King of the Rings
Alice: Through a looking-glass darkly
The V & A: Designer makeover
John Simpson: Action Addict
Mick Jagger: Roll model
Jimmy Young: Too old?
The Power of Cilla
Stephen Hawking: Star turn
Richard Dawkins: The foibles of faith
Kylie Minogue: Still so lucky
Ricky Tomlinson: Royle Rebel
Bill Cash: Tory Terrier
Giuliani firm among the ruins
Lord Simpson: The man who broke Marconi
The School Teacher: Classroom crisis
Lady Godiva: The naked truth
Ryanair: Flying high
The White Stripes: Raw Rock Revivalists
Anna Ford: Hardy perennial
Chris Morris: Brass Neck
Gordon Ramsay: Chef terrible
Red Bull: Raging success
Lara Croft: Fantasy Games Mistress
Nick Griffin: Right-wing chameleon
Sabeer Bhatia: Things go cold for Mr Hotmail
Thabo Mbeki: Following the fairytale
Rory Bremner: Finding his own voice
Kate Beckinsale: English pearl
Prince Philip: The Iron Duke
Nigella Lawson: A sweet and sour life
Sir Edward Heath: An isolated Tory
Naomi Klein: Know logo
Cambridge Footlights: Living with a legacy
Jane Fonda: Not so plain
Pontius Pilate: Man behind the myth
Trevor Beattie: Getting noticed, all right
Sir Norman Wisdom: Clown Prince of Albania
John Bayley: Bedtime Stories
Martine McCutcheon: By George she's got it
Tony Benn: End of an era
Eva Cassidy: Bitter-sweet songbird
Linford Christie: Polishing his pride
Bill Deedes: Mentioned in dispatches
Rory McGrath: Tackling from behind
Dave Pelzer: Dave who?
Anne Robinson: TV's rudest woman?
Bob Kiley: Going Underground
Zadie Smith: Willesden to Whitbread
P-Y Gerbeau: King of the Dome
Jesus Christ: Still Christmas number one?
Kevin Warwick: Saviour of humankind?
Bob the Builder: Can he fix it?
David Blaine: No Illusions
Richard Desmond: Express route to respectability
Colin Dexter: Morse the pity
Flying Squad: The Sweeney's changing face
Garry Kasparov: A king deposed
Gore Vidal: America's eloquent wasp
James Mawdsley: Defiant dissenter
Dame Helena: Lottery loser
Barbara Castle: Scaling the ramparts
Peter Melchett: Lord of the Greens
David Hockney: Transatlantic critic
Kerry Packer: Wizard of Oz
William: The student Prince
David Vine: Leaving on cue
Colin Powell: The Republican's trump card
Ikea's self-assembled billionaire
Boris Johnson: Tory blond bombshell
Mark James: Still in the rough
Harry Potter's magician
Jerry Hall: Graduate role model
Vinnie Jones: Hard man with soft centre
The rise of Camilla
Ben Elton: Labouring under a misconception?
Tony Robinson's cunning plan
Delia: The Cook and the Canaries
Dame Liz: Taylor made for charity
^^
Back to top
News Front Page
|
Africa
|
Americas
|
Asia-Pacific
|
Europe
|
Middle East
|
South Asia
|
UK
|
Business
|
Entertainment
|
Science/Nature
|
Technology
|
Health
|
Talking Point
|
Country Profiles
|
In Depth
|
Programmes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To BBC Sport>>
|
To BBC Weather>>
|
To BBC World Service>>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
© MMIII
|
News Sources
|
Privacy
