Jane Austen -Your Questions Answered
Welcome to Jane Austen, your questions answered
Would you like to advertise here? Feel free to contact us with any offers.
Home Page
Jane's Life
Book Reviews
Answer Page
Links Page
Essay Help
Welcome To Our Web Page
The purpose of which is for Jane Austen and a
widely-published academic author to supply answers to any questions
that you may have concerning Jane and her novels.
Any questions which you have are welcome whether at the level of general
or special academic interest.
Dr Edward Neill 1941-2009
It is with great sadness that I must announce that JAYQA is no longer active, due to the death of Dr Edward Neill, my father, in April this year from cancer.
I've decided to leave the website largely unchanged beyond this notice.
If you're looking for info relating to Austen, please note that with 141 questions answered, it's quite likely
something relating to your question is here so check the Answer Pages.
The site was set up in 2002 by myself so that the answers and reviews
could be supplied by my father,
in order to open up the world of Jane Austen to more people, and generate a modest amount of money in the process from ads and commisions on book sales.
This appears to have been successful, and I'd like to think the degree of satisfaction of those who read the answers was second only to the modesty of the money generated.
My father was a well-known critic and author. There were obituaries published in The Guardian and The Independent, the former more personal and the latter concentrating on his work:
Guardian Obituary
Independent Obituary
Rest In Peace, Dad
Greg Neill
June 2009
Links to his books:
The ads on this site are crucial to keeping it running.
I'd be grateful if you could use the Goooogle links whenever you visit.
(Be one of the tiny proportion of visitors who actually do this!)
Or even better donate to us through 'Pay Pal' Donation button (below). This helps us keep the main part of the site free.
It would also help enormously if when you need to buy a book you go through one of the (UK) Amazon links on this site and buy it from them.
I've tried them -they have a splendid range of fairly priced books.
We welcome any serious offers to advertise appropriate sites or commodities on our pages.
The Author Adds...
There is also a Book Review section (not written by Jane) which
will give you some idea of whether a book is interesting and on
which aspects of Jane's life and work. There are also comments on
some academic articles.
Email us a question at J_Nausten{at}yahoo.co.uk
(click, or copy replacing '{at}' with '@' to email us a Q - unless its already been answered)
Or just Bookmark this page (Ctrl/Command D) for when you do want to.
visitors
A Great Lady
