Jane Austen Society UK : Initial Page
Home Page
Society Events
Branches/Groups
Regional Talks
Events UK
Latest News
Newsletter
Publications
The Novels
Biography
Costume
Society History
Myths Exploded
Other Links
How to Join
Contact Us
Constitution
Welcome to the Website of the Jane Austen Society
The Society's main aim is to foster the appreciation and study of the work, life and times of Jane Austen, and the Austen family.
Society Events
Members gain priority access to Society events, which include our London Study Day, held in the first quarter of the year, the AGM with guest speaker
in Chawton in July, and our 3-day Annual Conference held in September. The Conference venue changes every year, and during this 200th anniversary period
we are visiting the areas related to each of the novels.
Society Newsletters
Members also receive two Newsletters per year and our prestigious Annual Report, a scholarly publication which includes articles on recent research and
discoveries, acquisitions at the Museum, a bibliography of new books and articles, information from sale-rooms, and some illustrations.
Branches and Groups
In addition to the Society's day and weekend conferences, a varied menu of events is offered by Branches
and Groups in Bath and Bristol, Cambridge, Hampshire, Kent, London, the Midlands, the North, Scotland, South West, and counties
adjoining Surrey - the Southern Circle. The active participation of new members is encouraged by the organisers.
Other Information
The Society is happy to be contacted on matters concerning Jane Austen, and to answer queries about her life and work. Please contact the Honorary Secretary
via the 'Contact Us' link.
The website is packed with information, so to learn more about Jane Austen's life and works, the Society and its Branches and Groups, Jane Austen
related events nationwide, and the occasional unusual item related to the author contained in the Latest News page, please select the links in the left-hand column.
Full details of the Constitution of the Jane Austen Society may be displayed on screen via the link in the left-hand column.
AGM at Chawton House
Barnett Hill Hotel, near GuildfordConference Venue 2016
Jane Austen's House, Chawton
