McGonagall Online
- A Tribute to William McGonagall, Poet and Tragedian of Dundee
Home
Works
Life
Articles
News
Shop
About
Share This
Search this site:
William Topaz McGonagall, poet and tragedian of Dundee, has been widely hailed as the writer of the worst poetry in the English language. A self-educated hand loom weaver of Irish descent, he discovered his discordant muse in 1877 and embarked upon a 25 year career as a working poet, delighting and appalling audiences across Scotland and beyond.
His audiences threw rotten fish at him, the authorities banned his performances, and he died a pauper over a century ago. But his books remain in print to this day, and he’s remembered and quoted long after more talented contemporaries have been forgotten.
This site provides a comprehensive guide to the life and works of William McGonagall, including 245 of his best(?) poems and his remarkable (and unintentionally hilarious) autobiography. Please click on one of the headings below to begin your visit.
Gem of the Day
The Battle of Culloden
If you thought “Butcher Cumberland” made a mess of the highlanders, wait till you read this…
Register to receive the “Gem of the Day” by email
Works
Though he’s best known today for The Tay Bridge Disaster, McGonagall actually published well over 200 poems in his lifetime. Explore this collection of his work, or try the “Gem of the Day” (above).
Life
McGonagall left us several accounts of his eventful life, all of which are presented here. These accounts are supplemented with contemporary press reports of the Poet’s activities.
Articles
More recent articles written about all aspects of McGonagall’s life and work.
News
News, reviews and readers’ own gems about the great man.
Shop
Support this site by buying your McGonagall merchandise here.
’Twas on this day in 1849...
The Battle of Gujrat
The Sikhs are no match for the British Empire
Latest News
McGonagall Link in People’s Journal Collection 3 weeks ago
McGonagall the Musical 1 month ago
McGonagall Supper in Angus 5 months ago
McGonagall Interviewed by Oscar Wilde! 7 months ago
A Tribute to William Topaz McGonagall 1 year ago
Recent Comments
Haydn E Ebbs on Calamity in London 2 weeks ago
Gonafan on A Poet’s Complaint 2 weeks ago
BB on Farewell Address at the Argyle Hall 2 weeks ago
poetry fan on The Tay Bridge Disaster 2 weeks ago
BB on Song Dedicated to Mr Barry Sullivan, Tragedian 2 weeks ago
Dundee, 30th May 1865
I certify that William McGonagall has for some time been known to me. I have heard him speak, he has a strong proclivity for the elocutionary department, a strong voice, and great enthusiasm. He has had a great deal of experience too, having addressed audiences and enacted parts here and elsewhere.
George Gilfillan
Site by Extra Connections Ltd.
© Chris Hunt 2017.
Home
Contact
Register Log in
