Celebrating the life and works of Richard Jefferies
(John) Richard
Jefferies (6 November 1848 - 14 August 1887) is best known for his
writings about nature and the countryside.His birthplace and home at
Coate, now on the out-skirts of Swindon, provide the background to all his
major works of fiction and for many of his essays.
The
Richard Jefferies Society was established in 1950 and has members in all parts of the
world. It is a registered charity (no. 1042838) managed by an Executive
Council of volunteers.
The Objects of the Society are:
o   To promote interest in, and
respect for the life and works of Richard Jefferies.o   To hold meetings of its members and others, at which
lectures may be given bearing on the life, work and times of Richard Jefferies.o   To maintain a collection of and help make available
to members copies of the works of Richard Jefferies and associated literature.o   To monitor and protect as far as possible the
buildings and countryside associated with Richard Jefferies.o   To provide members with news and information about
Richard Jefferies by means of a newsletter and journal.Newsletters, with information about the
writer, current events, publications and services are circulated to
members twice a year along with an annual report.   In addition
they receive a summer and winter copy of the Society's Journal containing hitherto unpublished
writing by Jefferies, new articles, research and book reviews. There are
meetings for readings and discussions, as well as visits to places
associated with the writer.  The Society has a special concern for
such places as the writer's birthplace at Coate (which is now maintained
as a museum), Coate Water, Liddington Hill, and the memorial
stone on Burderop Down, all in Wiltshire. Other places of pilgrimage are at
Surbiton, Sydenham and Eltham near London, and at Brighton, Crowborough
and at his final home at Goring by Sea, Sussex where he died on 16 August 1887 at
the age of 38.  Richard Jefferies' grave is in Broadwater
cemetery at Worthing.
For further
information contact the Honorary Secretary at info@richardjefferiessociety.co.uk or write to: The Old Mill, Mill Drive, Foulsham, Norfolk NR20 5RB.
'Jefferies Land' film
You can watch a film entitled 'Jefferies Land' about Richard Jefferies and his Coate home by clicking on the link below to Swindon Viewpoint's website. The film is 23 minutes long and was made by the Richard Jefferies Society in 2001. Jefferies Land
Jefferies' favourite haunt: Liddington Hill
“There is a hill to which I used to resort ... The labour of walking three miles to it, all the while gradually ascending, seemed to clear my blood of the heaviness accumulated at home.On a warm summer day the slow continued rise required continual effort,which carried away the sense of oppression. The familiar everyday scene was soon out of sight; I came to other trees, meadows, and fields; I began to breathe a new air and to have a fresher aspiration... Moving up the sweet short turf, at every step my heart seemed to obtain a wider horizon of feeling; with every inhalation of rich pure air, a deeper desire.  The very light of the sun was whiter and more brilliant here.  By the time I had reached the summit I had entirely forgotten the petty circumstancesand the annoyances of existence.  I felt myself, myself.”
The Story of my Heart, by Richard Jefferies, 1883.
|About us |
|Richard Jefferies|
|Membership|
|Publications|
|Farmer's World|
|Ben Tubbs|
|Journal|
|Newsletters|
|Lectures|
|Books|
|Writers' Prize|
|news|
|Photograph album|
|Facebook|
|Museum|
The Richard Jefferies Society
