The Tennyson Society
Skip to main contentSkip to menu
The Tennyson Society
Site search
The Tennyson Society
About Us Founded 1960
President: The Lady Willoughby de Eresby The Tennyson Society exists to promote the study and understanding of the life and work of Alfred, Lord Tennyson. It has a world-wide membership. Since 1967, the Tennyson Research Bulletin has been issued annually. It includes articles on all aspects of the Poet’s life and work, news of research in progress throughout the world, reviews, and other miscellaneous articles. The Bulletin has proved to be of great value both to scholars and to those whose interest is less academic. Monographs and Occasional Papers are produced from time to time, and we encourage scholars from all around the world who are keen to submit a proposal to get in touch. A programme of events is organised for members. Regular events in the year include the Memorial Service in August, the London Day in October which includes the laying of a wreath in Westminster Abbey, the Annual Lecture in June, and a weekend visit to a location associated with the Poet during the spring or summer. We keep in touch with our members on a regular basis, via an email newsletter, to ensure that members have access to Tennyson related news and events, and to continue our aim in representing and supporting scholars, writers, and poetry lovers interested in this inspirational poet and cherished historical figure.  The society takes great interest in fostering connections and an open dialogue between our membership base, from the Atlantic archipelago and beyond. The Tennyson Research Centre The Tennyson Society works very closely with the Tennyson Research Centre (TRC), situated in the dome of Lincoln Central Library.  The TRC holds the most significant collection on Alfred Tennyson in the world including letters, books and manuscripts. A small collection of Tennyson memorabilia is on display in the Lending Library (www.lincolnshire.gov.uk/Tennyson). Chairman: Marion Shaw
Honorary Secretary: Kathleen Jefferson BEM kathleen.jefferson@lincolnshire.gov.uk
Treasurer: Peter Moore American Representatives: Prof. Barbara Clark & Prof. Cameron Thomas
HomeMembershipEventsPublicationsPhoto GalleryUseful LinksContact
The Tennyson Society Central Library, Free School Lane, Lincoln, England, Lincolnshire, LN2 1EZContact: Kathleen Jefferson - Telephone: 01522-687837 - Email: kathleen.jefferson@lincolnshire.gov.uk
© Copyright 2017 |
Disclaimer |
Terms and Conditions |
Cookies |
Back to top
