Badham Farm Holiday Cottages, Looe and Polperro
Home
Cottages
Amenities
Fishing Holidays
Fitness Breaks
Attractions
Availability & Booking
Enquiries
Directions
Find a holiday cottage
Check availability online
Fitness Breaks
Fishing Holidays
Plan your wedding
Check out the facilities
Local Info:
THE RAIL ALE TRAIL
WALKING IN THE LOOE VALLEY
THIS HAUNTED LAND(ghostly happenings at Causeland Station)
CORNISH MINING WORLD HERITAGE
GENUKIUK & Ireland genealogy: Duloe
GENUKIUK & Ireland genealogy: St Keyne
THE TRAINLINE .combook rail tickets
PIRATE FM BEST DAYS OUTspecial offers & discount tickets
Welcome to our self catering holiday cottages near Looe and Polperro in South East Cornwall
Our spacious and luxurious holiday cottages are set in a beautiful, tranquil Cornish valley between Liskeard and Looe. Just three miles from the sandy
family beach at Looe, Badham Farm is an ideal centrally located base from which to explore Cornwall by road or rail. There is secure parking and
level access to all cottages.
On-site facilities
These include fishing, tennis, mini golf, badminton, games room with pool, table tennis, bar billiards, darts and fully licensed bar. Spa and Gym.
Child friendly
Badham Farm is a safe and exciting place for children with a large play area equipped with swings, trampoline, climbing frame and
pets corner with goats, ducks, rabbits, guinea pigs and chickens. Children can help feed the animals.
Dog friendly
We have some Dog Friendly Cottages and close by are Dog Walks and Dog Friendly beaches.
Mountain bike hire
Various mountain bikes are available for hire from Badham Farm so that you can enjoy cycle safe routes such as the Camel Trail, Cardinham Woods and the old Mineral Tramway.
Road and rail access
Easy access from the A38 and A30. Direct access by train to our own rail halt at Causeland Station on the picturesque Looe Valley Line. The train is a single rail car & does not disturb our peace & tranquity - it does not run during the night.
You can enjoy car free days out and visit all the major attractions in Cornwall by rail. Newquay and Padstow only 40 minutes by car.
Things to do
Badham Farm holiday cottages are close to numerous tourist attractions including the renowned Eden Project, the Lost Gardens of Heligan,
Bodmin Moor, Looe, Polperro, Fowey, Polruan, Whitsand Bay, Downderry, Seaton, Rame Head, Boconnoc, Anthony House (National Trust),
Lostwithiel & Bodmin & Wenford Steam Railway, Mount Edgcumbe, Cotehele (National Trust), Morwellham Quay & so much more.
Dining out
Discerning diners will love Looe and Polperro- this is an area which offers a greater choice of first class award winning restaurants and fine Inns than any other area of Cornwall.
A warm welcome awaits you
At Badham Farm, you will find a genuine and warm welcome from your resident hosts who are always here during your stay to ensure
that your holiday is a memorable one. We host quiz nights and Curry evenings as well as barbecues.
Last Minute Bookings and Short Breaks
We specialise in last minute bookings and short breaks. If you are looking for a late deal on a holiday cottage or late offers, see our Special Offers,
Late Availability and Short Breaks pages for more information.
Weddings
If you are planning a wedding, why not contact us and our associate wedding planner for a choice of stunning locations. As well as providing accommodation, Badham Farm is a great location for your wedding reception with top catering at a price that will not break the bank!
Special Offers
Late Availability
Short Breaks
Dog Friendly Holidays
Visitors Comments
Goat Webcam
Badham Farm Blog
Latest News and Offers
WELCOME TODAY IS Thursday February 16th
Search Availability
Here is a short video to highlight beautiful Looe.
https://youtu.be/MebvcMy0Tu4
No agency Fees when you book with us Owners Direct.
Compare our rates to Cottage Agencies rates before booking.
Lots of offers & short breaks. Some cottages at Feb Half Term & Easter still left.
3 day breaks for groups in our Farmhouse & Stable - sleeps 6 -16.Ring for rates.   Stable sleeps 6 in April only £566 per week.Do your like our I Phone version of the web site ?Check the offers page for discount codes.Click the quick links for more information.www.badhamfarm.co.uk/search_availability.phpJust email for details.
Time to book & get the holiday you want.
Do you know we have luxury cottages during the Spring starting at £80 per person per week ?
Contact:
Badham Farm HolidaysSt KeyneLooeCornwallPL14 4RW
Tel 01579 343572Fax 01579 343222
Quick links:
Home
Holiday Cottages
Fishing Holidays
Fitness Breaks
Weddings
Amenities
Special Offers
Late Availability
Short Breaks
Book Online
How To Find Us
Enquiries
(c) Last updated 16th February 2017
Website developed by WesternWeb
