Looe & Polperro Holidays | Self-Catering Cottages
01503 265330info@looeandpolperroholidays.co.uk
Search
Holiday cottages in stunning locations across South East Cornwall
Menu
Header
Home
Browse CottagesLooe
Groups Of Cottages
Polperro
Dogs Welcome
Portwrinkle
Near the Coast
Downderry
With Harbour Views
Special Offers
With Parking
New Properties
With Wi-Fi
Seasonal Availability
Rural Cottages
Large Cottages
Near a Restaurant
Explore the AreaGuide to the Area
Discover Looe
Discover Polperro
Feature Articles
NEW! Holiday Extras
About Us Our Blog
Contact Us
Request a Brochure
Subscribe to Newsletter
Career Opportunities
Let with usThinking of Letting?
Request an Owner Pack
Easter Cottages
- Book today
View Cottages
Valentine's Breaks
View Cottages
Get away for Spring...
View Cottages
Quick Search
Features
Start date
Number of nights
Number of nightsAny number of nights2 nights3 nights4 nights5 nights6 nights7 nights8 nights9 nights10 nights11 nights12 nights13 nights14 nights15 nights16 nights17 nights18 nights19 nights20 nights21 nights22 nights23 nights24 nights25 nights26 nights27 nights28 nights
Plus Minus
Exact date+/- 1 day+/- 2 days+/- 3 days
Number of people
Adults
Number of adults (age 18+)1 Adult2 Adults3 Adults4 Adults5 Adults6 Adults7 Adults8+ Adults
Children
Number of children (age 2–17)1 Child2 Children3 Children4 Children5 Children6 Children7 Children8 Children
Under 2s
Number of infants (age under 2)1 Infant2 Infants3 Infants4 Infants5 Infants6 Infants7 Infants8 Infants
Close
Search
Looe and Polperro Holiday Cottages
95%
Customer Satisfaction
Always have a lovely holiday as we come to Looe every year
See all reviews.
Looe and Polperro Holidays is a family owned company that has been providing quality holiday apartments and cottages in the lovely South East area of Cornwall for nearly 10 years.
We have a choice of fantastic self catering properties to suit all holiday makers. Whether you want a fisherman's cottage by the sea, a modern apartment, a rustic farmhouse in the spectacular countryside or a stunning yacht moored on the coast - we can provide a great choice of properties. We regularly have special offers and deals on our holiday lettings to enable you to make the most of the last minute sunny weather. Our last minute offers change each month so keep checking back on our website for the latest deals.
We have a good choice of larger properties that can sleep extended families or groups of friends. All of our properties have modern amenities and are tastefully furnished to enable you to relax and enjoy your surroundings. On this website we also offer information about places to visit and favourite Cornish locations for you to explore. All of our self catering properties are within easy access of some of the most interesting tourist spots in Cornwall, so you'll never run out of things to do in this wonderful holiday county!
Featured Propertiessee allSpecial Offerssee allPet Friendlysee allLast Minute Availabilitysee allLooe Cottagessee all
"The house was amazing, we really enjoyed our stay. The view is gorgeous and the layout and size of the rooms were perfect."
Mrs P, St Michaels.
"Wonderful holiday, super apartment and location. Would highly recommend."
Mrs W, Abalone Apartment.
"We found Sea Merchants View to be well equipt and furnished to a high standard."
Mrs H, Sea Merchants View.
Holiday Ideas
Where can I take my dog?
Find out more
Cottages with Wi-Fi
View Cottages
I'd like to be near the coast
Find out more
Recent Articles
News
Well done to our friends at Looe Music Festival
Friday
3rd
Feb
2017
Our friends at The Looe Music Festival did really well at the annual South West Tourism Excellence Awards last night (2nd February 2017) and won...Read more
News
Valentine’s Breaks
Tuesday
17th
Jan
2017
Looking for that special romantic get-away?
Look no further!  With an amazing selection of cosy cottages, seaside hideaways an...Read more
News
Snap-happy Kharis!
Saturday
17th
Dec
2016
Congratulations to our very own Kharis who has recently been selected as one of the finalists in the Cornwall Today Readers’ Photography comp...Read more
News
Book now and beat the rush
Monday
12th
Dec
2016
We have amazing holiday homes in and around Looe, as well as much of South East Cornwall, with stunning beach and coastal views, cosy Cornish co...Read more
Join Our Mailing List
Email *
Title *
TitleMrMrsMsMissDrProfRev
Initial
Surname *
Opening Hours
Local Office
Mon - Sat: 9am - 5pm
Tel: 01503 265330
Booking Line
Mon - Sat: 8am - 8pm
Sun: 11am - 3pm
Tel: 01503 265330
Our Awards
Follow Us
FacebookTwitterGoogleplus
Looe & Polperro Holidays
The Quay, West Looe, Cornwall, PL13 2ES
Cottage Holidays
National choice from local experts.
Useful Links
Pay Deposit/Balance
Owner Login
Useful Information
Contact Us
Sitemap
