ADAS
ADAS exists to provide ideas, specialist knowledge and solutions to secure our food and enhance the environment.
ADAS is the UK’s largest independent provider of agricultural and environmental consultancy, rural development services and policy advice. ADAS has a unique combination of insight and practical experience, underpinned by robust, informed, science-based information that allows us to meet the needs of both our domestic and international clients. Our great strength is our breadth and depth of expertise spanning the entire environmental sector.
Latest News
New categorisation of food scares will help develop strategies to prevent food chain being...
Researchers from the University of Surrey, including  Dr Elizabeth Whitworth from ADAS, have developed a new comprehensive categorisation of food scares, a new study in the British Food Journal reports. Researchers develop a new categorisation of food scares which will aid more efficient development of strategies to tackle the problem.
Existing categorisations were found to be too simplistic, not recognising contributing factors.
Researchers propose that the term...New categorisation of food scares will help develop strategies to prevent food chain being... continued...
National roll-out of new approach to great crested newt licensing - with ADAS leading the...
In a recent White Paper, Natural England has announced a pioneering landscape-wide approach to great crested newt mitigation.  The aim of this new approach is to ensure greater efficiency in the licensing process, and ultimately a better outcome for both developers and great crested newts by considering boroughs as a whole rather than on a site by site basis.  The roll-out was announced in the Department for Communities and Local Government’s Housing White Paper.  ADAS has...National roll-out of new approach to great crested newt licensing - with ADAS leading the... continued...
BBFAW 2016 - Benchmark ranking global food companies’ performance on farm animal welfare released
The Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare (BBFAW) has just launched its fifth Annual Report (Monday 23rd January 2017) – the full report can be found on their website (click here). The BBFAW is a global measure of food companies’ farm animal welfare management, policy commitment, performance and disclosure. It was created to improve corporate reporting on farm animal welfare and drive change amongst global food businesses to improve their animal welfare practices. This article...BBFAW 2016 - Benchmark ranking global food companies’ performance on farm animal welfare released continued...
Hedgerows and Boundaries Grant 2017
The 2017 Countryside Stewardship Hedgerows and Boundaries Grant Scheme is now open for applications and the scheme is more accessible than it was last year.Hedgerows and Boundaries Grant 2017 continued...
Insect farming in the UK – workshop event
In farming, many insects are damaging crop pests, but as the search for innovative alternative sources of nutrition continues insects are increasingly being farmed in their own right. Insects reproduce rapidly, have a high protein content, require relatively little water or land, and can feed on a range of organic inputs. Largescale insect production is already underway around the world, but what does the future really hold for insect farming in the UK?
On 4 April 2017, this event in London...Insect farming in the UK – workshop event continued...
Showcase on ADAS #CropResearch
ADAS delivers applied research and knowledge transfer, focusing on the development of sustainable and profitable crop production systems.  This includes the implementation of pest, disease and weed management strategies, improving arable and horticultural crop performance, development of biomass and biofuel crops, use of natural plant products in new markets, protection and management of soils and water use and quality.Showcase on ADAS #CropResearch continued...
ADAS Arable Crop Report Autumn 2016
The autumn drilling window was relatively dry and mild from August to October. This allowed most winter oilseed rape crops to be drilled in August with all drilled by mid-September. Winter cereal drilling started in September, and although dry conditions in the east resulted in some delays, most crops were drilled by mid-November. Crops established well in western and northern regions, but the dry conditions in the east, particularly around Essex, Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire and Cambridge caused...ADAS Arable Crop Report Autumn 2016 continued...
RSK Group plc acquires ADAS to add agricultural and additional environmental services to its...
This is an acquisition that presents synergistic growth opportunities for both businesses.
It provides RSK with new services to add to its existing environmental, engineering and technical support services business.
ADAS has more than 65 years’ experience of delivering national agricultural and environmental consultancy services concerned with two major issues of our time: securing food supply and enhancing the environment.
RSK Group plc acquires ADAS to add agricultural and additional environmental services to its... continued...
How can the food industry work together to tackle global sustainability challenges
Following the release of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals there is increased pressure on businesses to consider what steps they can take to address the key issues around the social and environmental impacts of their business.  Many of the UN goals focus on global social sustainability issues such as improving education, reducing poverty and ensuring access to clean water.  However, there are also a number of environmental sustainability goals such as taking action on...How can the food industry work together to tackle global sustainability challenges continued...
The Pepsico 50 in 5 initiative - halving greenhouse gas emissions from potato production
Since 2010 ADAS and PepsiCo have been working alongside Walkers Crisps’ UK potato growers with an aim to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from potato production by 50% in 5 years; the 50 in 5 initiative.  This ambitious project required engagement from all parts of the potato supply chain, especially the growers, with support from experts, including those from ADAS, and of course a will from PepsiCo to make it all happen.  At the end of the 5 years the Walkers Crisps...The Pepsico 50 in 5 initiative - halving greenhouse gas emissions from potato production continued...
View ADAS Group's other companies
@ADASGroup on Twitter
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Search
Toggle navigation
Menu
0333 0142950
Home
About
About Us
A Responsible Business
International
Services
News / Projects
Careers
Current Vacancies
Development
Benefits
Graduate recruitment
Testimonials
Contact
ADAS is a trading name of RSK ADAS Ltd. Registered in England No. 10486936. Registered Office: Spring Lodge, 172 Chester Road, Helsby, Cheshire, WA6 0AR.
RSK ADAS Ltd is part of RSK Group PLC.
Policy Statements
|
Privacy
| Domain Registry Services
Copyright 2017 RSK ADAS Ltd.
