Things to do, accommodation and places to eat in Worcestershire
skip to main navigation
skip to content
Group Travel
Conference Worcestershire
Weddings
Industry
Add to shortlist button.ClearPrint
#worldclassworcs
Home
Stay
Hotels
B&B's
Self Catering
Farms and Inns
Caravan and Camping
Alternative Accommodation
Family Friendly
Dog Friendly Accommodation
Accessible Accommodation
Late Availability
Worcestershire Breaks
Explore
Family Fun
Great Outdoors
History and Heritage
Shopping
Sports
Theatre, Arts and Music
What's On
Add Your Event
Sporting Fixtures
Eat & Drink
Restaurants
Cafes
Afternoon Tea
Pubs and Bars
Farm Shops
Cookery Schools
The City
Things to do
What's On
Where to stay
Eat & Drink
Shopping
Christmas Fayre 2016
Places
Bewdley
Broadway
Bromsgrove
Droitwich Spa
Evesham
Kidderminster
Malvern
Pershore
Redditch
Stourport-on-Severn
Tenbury Wells
Upton Upon Severn
Plan a Visit
Explore Award Winning Worcestershire
Travel to Worcestershire
Tourist Information Centres
Worcester Cathedral
Local in the heart of the City, Worcester Cathedral in one of England's loveliest cathedrals, with Royal Tombs, Medieval Cloisters, an ancient crypt and Chapter House and magnificent Victorian stained glass.
Broadway Tower, Worcestershire
The gateway to Worcestershire, Broadway Tower is a
unique Capability Brown Folly Tower open to visitors wanting to experience great English heritage in an inspiring location.
Malvern Hills, Worcestershire
The Malvern Hills boast some of the most spectacular views in the Midlands and is a great place for walking, running, cycling or just enjoying the countryside.
Severn Valley Railway, Kidderminster to Bridgnorth
Severn Valley Railway boasts one of the largest collections of working steam locomotives and coaches and takes passengers through the beautiful Worcestershire countryside.
West Midland Safari & Leisure Park, Bewdley
The award-winning West Midland Safari Park has 1700 magical animal encounters and four miles of safari, home to Indian Rhino; Cheetah; Lions; Tigers; Giraffe and Elephants.
Three Counties Showground, Malvern
The Royal Three Counties
Showground has over 250 days of events throughout the year including CountryTastic, RHS Malvern Spring Festival, Royal Three Counties Show and the Malvern Autumn Show. Everyone can enjoy a great day out at The Showground.
Visit Worcestershire
Welcome to the official Visit Worcestershire website - full of tourist information for Worcestershire for all the things you need to know to help plan day trips, short breaks or family holidays in Worcestershire - a beautiful West Midlands county.
You can explore the vast amount of attractions and things to see and do, enjoy the great outdoors including the beautiful countryside and the many waterways, discover more about the history and heritage of the area including; Worcester's part in the English Civil War, an array of historic houses and a steam railway. There is also plenty to do for the whole family and unique shopping experiences. The county is also renowned for its sports including premiership rugby, first division cricket, basketball and horse-racing fixtures.
Accommodation providers offer a mixture of facilities whatever your budget for holidays in Worcestershire, including country house hotels, B&B's, self catering, camping and caravanning sites.
Worcestershire is famous for its local Food and Drink Produce and it's not just the sauce. Pubs, Restaurants and Cafes across the county serve local food and drink produce ensuring an authentic Worcestershire experience.
You can also search for many Festivals and Events happening throughout the year.
Let Worcestershire Tourist Information help you make your holiday in Worcestershire perfect!
Stay
Explore
What's On
Property Type (Any)HotelsB&Bs and Guest housesSelf-CateringGlampingCamping & Caravan Parks
From
Night(s)
For 1 night2 nights3 nights4 nights5 nights6 nights1 week2 weeks
Near (Any town)BewdleyBroadwayBromsgroveBromyardCradley HeathDroitwichEveshamGloucesterHerefordKidderminsterLedburyMalvernPershoreRedditchStourport-on-SevernTenbury WellsTewkesburyUpton upon SevernWorcester
or Property name
Advanced search
Exploring Worcestershire
Eating and Drinking
Family Fun
Festivals and Events
Great Outdoors
History and Heritage
Shopping
Sports
Theatre, Arts and Music
Events in Worcestershire
Worcester Cathedral Worcester
Sat 18 - Sat 25 Feb 2017 An exciting new exhibition telling the tragic story of Henry VIII's older brother through an interactive dramatized audio-tour in the Dean's Chapel. More info
The Commandery Worcester
Sun 19 Feb 2017 The huge Living History in Worcester takes place at The Commandery on the 18th and 19th February 2017. More info
Tudor House Museum Worcester
Sat 18 - Sun 19 Feb 2017 Experience life during WWI as part of the Love Worcester heritage festival with renowned re-enactors, Living History! More info
Brockhampton Estate (National Trust) Worcester
Sat 11 - Sun 19 Feb 2017 This half term at Brockhampton Estate follow the Wind in the Willows family trail based on the adventures of Mole, Mr. Toad, Badger and Ratty.
More info
Angel Place Worcester
Mon 20 Feb 2017 General Market in Angel place on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday's with a fabulous mix of goods as well as fresh produce and street food. More info
Churchfields Farm Droitwich
Mon 20 - Sat 25 Feb 2017 Join us over February Half Term for some great crafty activities. More info
Worcester City Art Gallery & Museum Worcester
Mon 20 Feb 2017 Join us to make beautiful nature boxes for your treasures. We will explore our wonderful collection of shells, rocks and minerals for inspiration, and use lots of natural materials for the make. More info
St Swithun's Church, Worcester Worcester
Tue 21 Feb 2017 Discover the sights, sounds and smells of Georgian life as you follow our free interactive sensory trail around St Swithun's More info
Eastnor Pottery Malvern
Wed 22 Feb 2017 An ideal opportunity for aspiring young potters to work with professional, ceramic artists. Experience ‘hands on’ real clay with an exciting variety of making techniques. More info
The Infirmary Worcester
Wed 22 Feb 2017 A guided tour of the former Worcester Royal Infirmary building.
More info
Huntingdon Hall Worcester
Thu 23 Feb 2017 Back in 2009, Jonny Miller, Chris Lloyd, Peter Anderson and Keith Buck began a labour of love More info
Jinney Ring Craft Centre Bromsgrove
Tue 28 Feb 2017 Pancakes all day in the Farmhouse Restaurant More info
Harvington Hall Kidderminster
Sat 4 - Sun 5 Mar 2017 Elizabethan Living History. More info
Local Tourism News
NEWBORN BABY GIRAFFE IS AMBASSADOR FOR CONSERVATION…
16 February 2017
A rare Rothschild’s giraffe has been born at West Midland Safari Park - the third baby welcomed into the herd in just six months.
WORCESTER'S LITERARY HERO
15 February 2017
Mrs Henry Wood (Ellen Wood) was born in Worcester in 1814 and has a memorial in Worcester Cathedral.
She wrote over 100 short stories and 30 novels and became one of the bestselling writers of popular fiction during the 19th Century. She was seminal as a writer of sensational fiction, stories packed full of mystery, crime and melodrama which came into vogue in the 1860s.
MUSEUM REOPENS FOR 2017 WITH NEW
DISPLAYS AND SPECIAL EXHIBITION
9 February 2017
The Broadway Museum and Art Gallery when it opens its doors on the 10th of February , following its usual winter closure, will begin a programme to add new displays to offer its visitors an even greater insight into the history of Broadway.
NEW FAMILY SOARS INTO SAFARI PARK!
1 February 2017
A family of gigantic pterosaurs, have soared into the grounds of West Midland Safari Park and made it their new home, just in time for half term.
Click here for more press releases.
Tweets at https://twitter.com/VisitWorcs
Featured Accommodation
The Pembridge
Cottage in the Wood
Elim Conference Centre
Brockencote Hall
The Court House Boutique B&B
The Dell House
Peachley Touring Caravan Park
Green Farm
Mount Pleasant Hotel
The Mug House Inn
Hopyard Farm
Forest View Retreat
Hogarths Stone Manor Hotel
Hope End Holidays
Stanbrook Abbey Hotel
Osborne House
Henwick House Bed & Breakfast
The Talbot Inn
Tredennyke House
Worcester City Centre Cottage
Copper Beech House
Bank House Hotel, Spa and Golf Club
Holland House
'It's A Good Life' at Broomhall Farm
Hill Farm House
Willow Cottages B&B
Manor Coach House
The Old Town Hall
The Durrance
Fern Cottage
Hill Farm House Tasting England Tour Bumblebee Cottage Viking Afloat The Swan Inn
Woodside Camping Pods The Old Farmhouse
The Cotford Hotel Nouveau at Beaujolais Walter de Cantelupe Inn Whitewells Farm Cottages
University of Worcester The Moretons Vacation Houses Beesoni Lodge
Roundstone View Holiday Let Tibbitts Farm Middleton Grange Oakmere Park
Hanbury Hall (National Trust) Brookfield Holiday Cottages Great Malvern Hotel
Rochford Park Cottages Premier Inn Bromsgrove South The Crown The Black Boy Hotel Rivermead Holiday Home Park Ashbury Bed & Breakfast
Willow Cottages B&B Harrowfields Bed and Breakfast Orangery at Little Boynes
eNews Signup
Please complete your details below
* required information
Full Name *
Email *
Are you happy to receive further information from: *
Yes, from yourselves
Yes, from yourselves and others
No, not at this time
Captcha image * Please enter the characters you see below. Click here
for a different captcha image.
Overseas Connections
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Statement
Accessibility
Visitor Guide
Group Travel
Conference Worcestershire
Weddings
Industry
Visit Worcestershire, Herefordshire & Worcestershire Chamber of Commerce, Worcester, WR4 9NE
01905 673617        www.visitworcestershire.org
You are accepting third-party cookies.
