Walking Britain Home Page- a free resource for walkers, walks and walking.
Home Page
The Walks
Lists of Walks Latest Walks Where to Walk Find a Walk Photo GalleriesWalking Europe Walking Switzerland Visiting Britain?
Share your Walk WB Newsletter New to Walking? News & Features Books & Maps
Contact
Email WB About WB Advertising
Where to Stay
Regional Lists
Self Catering
Walking Holidays
Walking Gear
Home Page
With over 18,000 pages of
free walking information, "Walking Britain" is dedicated to the footpaths that cross the landscape. The National Parks feature strongly in the lists of walks including the Lake District, the Peak District and Snowdonia, not to mention the Yorkshire Dales. Although the natural world is the theme, man-made elements such as villages, bridges, mines and churches are also included in the many walking routes.
Submit your Walks
Many of the walks on this website have been submitted by other authors keen to spread the word about their favourite routes. You can do the same - just click HERE.
Plot your walks for free on an Ordnance Survey background map with the Hikideas
walk planner. You can then download them in pdf format and print them out.
Another "New Look" for Walking Britain!
The site was completely redesigned in
May 2014. However the rise in popularity of mobile and tablet platforms means a fresh approach is required and this responsive web site is the result, with completion at the end of July 2015. The reconstruction is almost complete and a new search facility will soon be added. Please report any issues you might encounter so I can make sure all users are happy with the new site.
New to Walking?
Click for a simple guide of how to start walking. Includes a guide on how to select your walks.
Find golf holidays in Portugal - PTGolfHolidays.com golf advisors
New Walks
Exmoor Walk
Hertfordshire
East Sussex
Howgills walk
South Yorkshire
Swiss National Park
North Wessex
Staffordshire
Leicestershire
Pentland Hills
Cambridgeshire
Ligurian Coast (IT)
News
Walking in the Aire - A new book by Lee Senior featuring 14 walks in the Aire valley.
More info.West Yorkshire's Wild Side - Two new books in the 'Wainwright' style featuring Calderdale and moorland walks.
More info.The Dales Way - First edition of this excellent new guide from Trailblazer with detailed maps and information.
More info.
Follow @WalkingBritain1
Copyrightʩ 1999 - 2017 Walking Britain. All rights reserved. Please ask permission to use site content and images.
