Rainforest and Wildlife conservation in action with the World Land Trust
Skip to main content
Home
Press & Media
FAQs
Saving threatened habitats worldwide
Search form
Search
AboutHow We Work
Partner Organisations
Annual Review & Accounts
Patrons
Testimonials
Achievements
Governance
Staff
Job Seekers
FAQs
ProjectsElephant Corridor Appeal
Action Fund
Buy an Acre
Keepers of the Wild
Plant a Tree
Founding Projects
Where We Work
Carbon Balanced
Wild Spaces
Visit Projects
NewsLatest News
Features
Events
Green Diary
Newsletters
WLT in the News
Press Releases
RSS News Feeds
Book Reviews
Support usMake a Donation
Name an Orchid
WLT Friends
Gift Donation
International Payments
Corporate Supporters
Zoological Associations
Fundraising: Individuals
Fundraising: Schools
Fundraisers
Leave a Legacy
Donate in Memory
Other Ways to Help
eCards
Discover & LearnEducational Resources
Internships & Courses
Species in WLT Reserves
Wildlife Webcams
Podcasts
Virtual Tours
Fun & Games
Links Directory
Donate
World Land Trust - Rainforest Conservation in Action
Elephant Corridor Appeal
The Elephant Corridor Appeal aims to raise £750,000 to extend and protect Mudahalli Corridor, an elephant migration route where the Eastern and Western Ghats meet in southern India.
Current total: £643,859
For more information and to donate click here»
Challenge yourself and make a difference
Make 2017 a year to remember by tackling one of the adventures on your bucket list and raise money for World Land Trust.
Why support World Land Trust?
Join Sir David Attenborough, Steve Backshall, Bill Oddie, Chris Packham and John Burton (WLT founder) to find out why supporting World Land Trust is beneficial for our natural world.
For £100 an acre you can help us create and extend wildlife reserves by purchasing land in Argentina, Ecuador and Mexico, providing safe havens for some of Earth's most vulnerable wildlife.
Buy an acre »
Keepers of the Wild 2020
World Land Trust needs £750,000 to fund Keepers of the Wild until 2020. Will you help support the important work of wildlife rangers?
For as little as £5 a month, Friends of WLT support efforts to safeguard some of the most threatened habitats on the planet.
Saving habitats means safeguarding species. Join us and become a Friend today.
Thank you to all of our Friends!
Who are we?
World Land Trust is an international conservation charity that takes direct action to save rainforest and other wildlife habitats.
Conservation achievements
Nearly half a million acres saved and a further 2.5 million acres under protection agreements.
World Land Trust (WLT) is an international conservation charity that takes direct action to save rainforest and other wildlife habitats. By working with local partners across the world, WLT helps fund protected nature reserves to save threatened species.
Latest WLT News
World Pangolin Day: meet the people making a difference
17 February
New survey reports 11-12 Lammergeier nests in Armenia
17 February
5 ideas for animal lovers on Valentine’s Day
8 February
Read more news »
Subscribe to our eBulletin
To receive our monthly eBulletin please subscribe here »
Twitter
Tweets by @worldlandtrust
Elephant Corridor Appeal
WLT is working with Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) in an urgent bid to save Indian Elephants from extinction. The Elephant Corridor Appeal aims to raise £750,000 to extend and protect the Mudahalli Corridor.
For more information »
Sir David Attenborough, WLT Patron
"The money that is given to the World Land Trust, in my estimation, has more effect on the wild world than almost anything I can think of."
Hear why Sir David supports WLT »
eCards
Whatever the occasion, say it with a World Land Trust free eCard!
For more information»
Where we work
For a larger map click here
Ways to Support
Save rainforest and other threatened habitats by donating to help WLT plan vital land purchases.
► MAKE A DONATION
Regular Donation
Make a commitment to the world's endangered habitats by becoming a WLT Friend.
Climate change
Offset your carbon emissions and save ecosystems and biodiversity.
Buy an Acre
You can help WLT save threatened habitats acre by acre, creating protected nature reserves worldwide.
Art Gallery & Shop
Visit the World Land Trust Shop for artwork, charity cards and books.
Offset your flight emissions with our flight carbon calculator
►GET STARTED!
Corporate Supporters
Become a WLT corporate supporter »
Read about us
Contact Us
Email: info@worldlandtrust.org
Tel: +44 (0)1986 874422
Follow us
WLT is a Limited company registered in England & Wales No. 2552942 | Registered charity no. 1001291
© Copyright World Land Trust
Terms & Conditions of Sale
Content & Copyright
Privacy
Donations FAQs
Accessibility
Sitemap
