Arts For Health Cornwall | It's All About The Art
Arts For Health Cornwall
It's All About The Art
Menu
Search
Skip to content
Home
Search for:
Securing Your Future Credit
It seems that in the United States we have grown accustomed to easy credit. Want to buy a car? No problem! Time to buy a house? Great get it financed 100% there’s no sense in saving any money towards a down payment. The 90’s and early 2000’s was a time of easy credit that was basically handed out to us, no questions asked. That time has passed.
Fast forward to today you want to purchase a home? Great! Where is your down payment as well as good credit score? Don’t have it? Sorry your not approved. Now that you actually need a credit score to qualify for a loan and things such as a house or car there are things that can be done.
For Americans that have credit blemishes, credit massacres, or no credit at all there is a solution. A way that you are basically guaranteed credit. These are called secured cards. I know, I know you have heard of secured credit cards, and you don’t want the kiddy secured card you want the grown up gold or platinum card right? Well if your reading this and are one of the people with blemished, bruised, or massacred credit your simply not ready for one of those cards. But don’t get down on yourself there are some great secured cards out there that will help you increase your credit score, and it time many can be changed from a secured card to an unsecured card.
Now there are lots of secured cards out there, but which one should you choose? You want to make sure that you choose a card that reports to all three major credit bureaus. What’s the point of working on building your credit if your card only reports to Trans Union but you purchase from a car dealership that pulls an Equifax report? All your hard work will have been wasted. Usually when you get a secured card from a bank they report to all three bureaus. The good thing about using a secured card from an actual bank is that generally with about a year of good standing with them the secured card will roll into an unsecured card with them. So if your looking for a secured card through a bank like Wells Fargo, or Bank of America simply go to their websites and apply.
Of course there are plenty of reputable companies out there that offer secured cards as well. Companies such as Orchard Bank. The good thing about deciding that your going to get your secured card from a card company as opposed to a bank is that they will generally open a card account for less money than a bank will. Generally if your going to open an account through a company you want to keep the account open for approximately a year, and apply for a unsecured card. Once you get the unsecured card you can close your secured account. Remember however never close an unsecured account once its open or your credit score could be affected by your debt to credit ratio.
So lets touch base here with the “secured” part of your secured card. A secured card basically means that you are putting up your own money as collateral. Most banks or credit card companies will open a secured card for somewhere between $200-$300. This means if you open an account and send the bank $300, then your credit limit will be $300. Now this is not a debit card. You have this money in your secured account, but you still have to make payments on your purchases every month. The Secured money is simply to protect the bank or card company. If you fail to make a payment, the money that you owe will be taken out of your secured account, and your card will be closed.
No building credit is not fast. Its something that is going to take time. Its going to take commitment. Commitment to yourself. Because when you build your credit you are building your future. A mortgage rate can vary widely based on your credit score. Someone with excellent credit can easily be paying $500 a month less than a person with poor credit purchasing the same home. And again these days credit is not easy to get, so why not give yourself a little credit with your own secured credit card.
3rd January 2017admin
What is “In Store Credit” and How Does it Work?
Have you ever returned an item to a store for a refund and was offered “In Store Credit” instead? In-store credit means that instead of giving the customer a cash refund, he is given credit towards a future purchase in that particular store. A credit means that the store owes the customer money, which will be applied to anything bought at that store in the future.
For example, let’s say you were given a shirt for your birthday that you really don’t like. The shirt is worth $20 and still has the tags, but you don’t have the original receipt showing what was paid for the shirt. Instead of handing you the $20 refund in cash, the store clerk may decide to issue a gift card or a piece of paper with a $20 credit instead. The next time you visit the store, the gift card or paper acts like a coupon and will take $20 off the price of the new items.
Some stores won’t issue a cash refund even with the receipt and prefer to give out store credits. Small shops, thrift stores, and specialty shops are a few examples of stores that might not give out cash refunds, especially on sale or clearance items.
Store credits are also used at places that take “used” items, such as books, CDs, and DVDs. Instead of getting cash for these items, the store will offer customer a credit to be used against an other item in the store. This keeps a customer’s business in the store instead of shopping somewhere else for books or DVDs.
There’s a number of reasons why a store may issue in-store credits instead of a cash refund
* If you don’t have the original receipt, store credits limit the liability of the store in case the item was stolen. This way, the store has not lost cash, and is only out the wholesale price of the new item which is far less.
* Cuts down theft. A person is less likely to steal from a store if he or she knows that he won’t get cash for ‘returning’ stolen merchandise.
* Stores also know that an “in-store credit” will keep the customer in their store looking for a replacement item instead of taking their business somewhere else.
It’s important to remember that store credits are like cash and should be kept in a safe place until you are ready to shop again. If you’ve lost your gift card or paper credit slip, there’s no way to get that money back.
3rd January 2017admin
Search for:
Recent Posts
Securing Your Future Credit
What is “In Store Credit” and How Does it Work?
Categories
money matters
