Brycchan Carey - Home Page
Home
|
Slavery
|
Abolition
|
Equiano
|
Sancho
|
Cugoano
|
Places
|
Bookshop
|
Contact
|
Site Index
Brycchan Carey
Brycchan Carey is an academic and author specialising in the history and culture of slavery and abolition in the British Empire. This site offers pages dedicated to black British writers before 1850, in particular Ignatius Sancho, Olaudah Equiano, and Ottobah Cugoano, as well as resources for the study of slavery, abolition, and emancipation, British Abolitionists, and e-texts of otherwise difficult-to-obtain texts, such as eighteenth-century poems about slavery. You will also find pages about Cornwall, Brycchan's childhood home, and Guernsey, Cambridgeshire, and Northumberland. Brycchan's most recent book, on the birth of American antislavery, is From Peace to Freedom.
Slavery, Emancipation, and Abolition
I have been working on the topic for almost two decades, so, as you'd expect, much of my website is concerned with the history and literature of slavery and abolition, and with black writers in eighteenth-century Britain. The main pages are:
Resources for slavery, abolition, and emancipation
Ignatius Sancho (1729-1780) African Man of Letters
Olaudah Equiano, or, Gustavus Vassa, the African
Ottobah Cugoano: a former slave speaks out
British Abolitionists: biographies of people who worked against slavery
Books I've written or edited: mostly about slavery and abolition.
Complete index of this website
Interests, Career, Publications
Places: photos, literature, and information about my favourite places.
Cornwall and the Cornish: The main place: photos, literature, folk songs.
The Bookshop: good books, on sale
Etexts: an index of over 50 etexts available on this site
Read my CV
Complete index of this website
Who is this Brycchan Carey, anyway?
I am a Professor of English in the Department of Humanities at Northumbria University in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, United Kingdom. I am a specialist in the literature and culture of the eighteenth century and I work primarily on empire, slavery, and abolition, with additional interests in early modern and eighteenth-century life sciences and the environment.
My early work was on antislavery rhetoric, but in recent years I have mostly worked on the relationship between literature, culture, place, and environment, particularly in relation to the British and American slave trade. I have also researched the ways in which slavery was experienced locally in London, Guernsey, Cornwall, Barbados, and Pennsylvania.
I am currently Chair of The Association for Study of Literature and the Environment (UK and Ireland) and International Officer of The British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies. I am the immediate past president of The Literary London Society.
My most recent book is From Peace to Freedom: Quaker Rhetoric and the Birth of American Antislavery, 1658-1761, which is about the development of Quaker antislavery thought in the British American colonies. It was published by Yale University Press in 2012. I am currently writing a book on the relationship between slavery and environmental discourse.
And yes, my name is spelled (or spelt) incorrectly. The proper Welsh spelling is "Brychan". Click here to see why
I hope you've enjoyed your visit. I'm always adding to my site and I'm always glad to hear your views on what I'm doing. If you'd like to get in touch please send me email, but before you do, do read the Frequently Asked Questions.
You can also take a look at all the books I've written and edited, you can read my full academic CV, or check out my profile at Northumbria University. If you'd like to receive regular updates about this site and my other activities, you can follow me on Twitter.
Whatever you choose to do, thank you for visiting!
* This page last updated on 13 September 2016 * © Brycchan Carey 1999-2016 *
* This page is: http://www.brycchancarey.com/index.htm. It was created in April 2002 *
Tweets by @Brycchan
