St. Austell & Newquay Conservatives | Steve Double MP
Skip to main content
St. Austell & Newquay Conservatives
Steve Double MP
Main navigation
Home
About us
News
Events
Our map
Contact Us
St Austell and Newquay Conservatives
Welcome to the website for the St Austell and Newquay Conservative Association. We are a growing association supporting our new Member of Parliament Steve Double who recently secured a stunning victory over the Liberal Democrats, making him the first Conservative MP that we have had in some parts of the constituency for 47 years.
Here you can find links to local and national Conservative news stories, current campaigns, information about the association and our calender of upcoming events.
If you have any comments then please feel free to e-mail us at office@cornwallconservatives.com or visit the contact us section.
Featured Story
Cllr James Mustoe Reporting Back February 2016Wednesday, 2 March, 2016
This month has been a particularly busy month on the ground with the awful weather we have been experiencing proving a real test for Cornwall Council and its contractors, such as Cormac, who look after our highways.
Read news story
Local News
Councillor James Mustoe: Reporting back January 2016
Last week I got the first stage of my motion to Cornwall Council asking for a…
Mustoe’s call for changes to Cornwall Council’s public toilet funding to get first airing at upcoming meeting
James Mustoe, Cornwall Councillor for Mevagissey’s Motion to Cornwall Council;…
Councillor Patrick Lambshead: Reporting back December 2015
Although this report is for December may I wish you all a very Happy New Year…
More local news
National News
350,000 more people in work
Between June and September this year unemployment fell by 37,000 and since last year 350,000 more people now have a full time job.
Lowering the cap on benefits
UK GDP growth
Figures released by the Office of National Statistics show that between July and September 2016, the British economy grew by 0.5%, meaning our economy has grown by over 1
More national news
Our Map
This map shows the extent of the geographical area that we serve. This is the area of the United Kingdom that we represent on behalf of the Conservative Party.Clicking on the arrow below reveals a map of events and news articles near you, that will grow over time. Individual events and news articles are represented by pins of different colours and you will be able to click on them to find out more information.
View our map
Find us on Twitter
Tweets by @https://twitter.com/stanconserv
Join or Renew
Help us take action on local issues and build a better Britain.
St Austell and Newquay Conservatives
St. Austell & Newquay Conservatives Steve Double MP
Footer
About RSS
Accessibility
Cookies
Privacy policy
Promoted by St Austell & Newquay Conservatives, both at Carvynick Country Club, Summercourt, Newquay, Cornwall TR8 5AF
About us
Membership
Register to Vote
Copyright 2017 St. Austell & Newquay Conservatives Steve Double MP.
All rights reserved.
Powered by Bluetree
