Claremont Hotel, Polperro, Cornwall
Welcome to the Claremont Hotel
The Claremont Hotel is a privately owned and family run hotel centrally positioned in the heart of Polperro, offering very comfortable
accommodation, and less than three minutes walk from what is probably the prettiest fishing harbour in south east Cornwall, if not in the whole county.
The Claremont Hotel faces south overlooking the valley and rooftops, and is ideally positioned for a short walk to all the village attractions
and facilities.
The hotel and its accommodation has been modernised so that our guests enjoy the comfort that is expected these days, yet it still
retains its character, as parts of the hotel date back to the17th century,when it was most probably a fisherman's cottage.
Please note that the Hotel does not have views over the harbour.
With effect from 1st June 2016
Introducing a new concept in providing low cost accommodation.
Bed and Breakfast is being replaced by Bed on a Budget. Breakfast will not be served and will not be available. A saving on up to £20 per night over the previous Tariff.
A cooked breakfast is becoming a thing of the past as people are becoming more health conscious but when available, as on holiday, it tends to be eaten as it is included in the price. Also it is tempting to remain in bed so either forego the lie in or get up for breakfast. Now you can stay in bed as long as you wish knowing that you have already made a saving on not having breakfast.
Further savings have been made by reducing the amount of room service normally provided. In effect all this means is that we no longer change bed sheets and towels on a daily basis, however the bathmat will be changed each day, tea/coffee/milk will be topped up and your waste bin will be emptied each day. For stays of one week or more a full room service and change of bedding, towels etc will be carried out after 3 or 4 days at managers discretion. We have also reduced the reception hours and we no longer accept check-ins after 6.30pm and if guests do not arrive by 7pm the booking is classed as a no show and therefore cancelled. These cost savings in laundry, wages and materials are part of the cost reduction that Bed on a Budget is able to provide guests and the saving can enhance your holiday experience by using these cost savings as you wish.
The Claremont HotelThe CoombesPolperroCornwall PL13 2RG
Tel: +44(0)1503 272241
Home
Rooms
Facilities
Plan of Hotel
Guest Information
Customer Reviews
Tariff
Online Booking
Terms and Conditions
Getting Here
Things to Do
Webcam
(c) Last updated 21st October 2016
Website developed by WesternWeb
