Cornish Heritage | Contributor to The UNESCO Cornish Mining World Heritage Status
Cornish Heritage
Contributor to The UNESCO Cornish Mining World Heritage Status
Skip to content
HomeAbout
← Older posts
The Afterlife of our web-shop
Posted on April 11, 2014 by admin
Retirement is really good – we are enjoying it, proper job.
Meur ras – thank you for your enquiries asking us:
“Now – where can we get the goodies you were selling”?
Don’t despair – here we go:
A huge part of our stock was sold to a proper Cornish seamstress in Camborne. If you are searching for Wristbands “Kernow Bys Vykken”, Kernow Chough lapel badges or Cornish Tartan items, please contact
Express Sewing Services
Doreen
1A Basset Road
Camborne, TR14 8ES
01209-719843
Please note: There is NO Mail Order Service
The remaining stock, like Cornish Carstickers, Cornish Pewter Jewellery or Cornish Tartan Bears to name but a few, were donated to St Piran’s Trust Charity to raise money for the Excavation of the St Piran’s Oratory.
The Cornish Lady in the know about those items is Helen, please e-mail her for details helen.richards0@btinternet.com
For more news I shall write about it on this blog, Kernow Bys Vykken!
Suzie Murley 11.04.2014, Cornish Heritage
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
2 Comments
Western Morning News 22.1.13 – RICHARD TREVITHICK
Posted on January 23, 2013 by admin
One day the whole world will come to recognise the genius of Trevithick
BY SIMON PARKER
The Cornish have known it for 200 years. Historians have argued about it for almost as long. But now it seems the rest of the world is beginning to catch up by recognising Richard Tre­vithick – not James Watt or George Stephenson – as the inventor of the modern engine.
Trevithick, whose imposing statue stands outside the public library in his home town of Camborne, has for two centuries languished in semi-obscurity, been sidelined by academ­ics, omitted from textbooks and – shamefully – ignored by educators. Yet it was his innovation in using high pressure steam, along with the invention of the world’s first motor car and passenger-carrying locomot­ive, that set him above all of his contemporaries.
And while it is often said that you don’t see a bus for ages and then two come along at once, what’s not said is that without one man’s genius the bus might not have come along at all.
The two “buses” in question take the form of a brace of BBC2 history programmes being broadcast this month – both, remarkably, tipping their hat to the great Cornish in­ventor.
Dan Snow’s History Of The Rail-ways mentioned the great man – albeit in passing – during the first part of a major new series which began last week. This Thursday even­ing, however, will see Trevithick’s contribution to world civilisation fully assessed in the first episode of BBC2’s The Genius Of Invention.
One man who is particularly pleased by the inclusion of the 19th century engineer in the new series is Trevithick Society chairman Philip Hosken.
Mr Hosken, whose book, The Obli­vion Of Trevithick, was published last year, said: “We were told at school, and have heard it repeated many times since, that James Watt invented the steam engine. So ingrained is this myth that it is almost heresy to men­tion that history records a Cornish-man called Richard Trevithick as having invented the engine we all recognise – and many love.
“Man had been trying to control the dark forces contained in high pres­sure steam for a thousand years. It was Trevithick who used that steam at a sufficient pressure to act on the piston and drive the engine. To enable him to do this safely he invented the recognisable part of every steam engine to this day, the cylindrical boiler.
“In short, it was Trevithick’s cyl­indrical boiler which produced the steam that drove the Industrial Re-volution.”
Mr Hosken, who plans to publish a short history of Trevithick’s life and achievements later this year, added that he was pleased “the truth about Trevithick and his engine is being acknowledged by the BBC”.
Trevithick demonstrated the ver­satility of his engine in 1801 when he used a “puffing devil” to power a steam carriage in Camborne. This was the world’s first successful self-propelled road vehicle. Three years later he built a locomotive that ran on tram tracks in South Wales, carrying goods and passengers. This was the first self-propelled railway journey in the world. Despite being responsible for these and many other inventions, he has never been widely acknow­ledged or honoured in the way Watt and Stephenson are.
Dr Michael Mosley, who presents The Genius Of Invention programmes, agreed, stating: “Everyone believes that James Watt was re­sponsible for the modern engine, but he wasn’t. Trevithick’s engine would become the father of the steam train and the father of portable power. He liberated power and in doing so trans-formed the world.”
The Genius Of Invention begins on BBC2 this Thursday January 24 at 9pm.
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
PICROUS NIGHT 2012 with Will Coleman
Posted on December 2, 2012 by admin
The last Thursday before the first Thursday before Christmas…
which, this year, happens to fall on
Thursday 13th December
is always
PICROUS NIGHT
at the KING’S ARMS LUXULYAN
from dreckly o’clock ‘til a brave while later on…
As is customary we may expect
CORNISH TWIDDLY MUSIC
PROPER CORNISH CAROL SINGING,
IRREVERANT STORYTELLING,
MAYHEM
and
FROLICS.
Dynargh Onen hag Oll
SEE ‘EE THERE MY LOVELIES!
Other carol singing dates confirmed;
Fisherman’s, Golant, Sunday 16th Dec
Rashleigh, Polkerris, Weds 19th Dec
Tamar, Calstock and Queen’s Head, Albaston, Boxing Day
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
STORYTELLING with WILL COLEMAN
Posted on September 28, 2012 by admin
KC-A6-postcard-storytelling email
Tales of Cornish Sporting Treasures
FOWEY MUSEUM                                                   2PM        MONDAY 29TH OCTOBER
Town Hall, Trafalgar Square, Fowey, PL23 1BA, 01726 852458
SALTASH MUSEUM                                                 2PM                    TUESDAY 30TH OCTOBER17 Lower Fore Street, Saltash, PL12 6JQ, 01752 848466
WHEAL MARTYN MUSEUM                                 2PM            WEDNESDAY 31ST OCTOBER
Carthew, Saint Austell, PL26 8XG, 01726 850362
PERRANZABULOE MUSEUM                                2PM                THURSDAY 1ST NOVEMBER
Ponsmere Road, Perranporth, TR6 0BW, 01872 573321
PENLEE HOUSE MUSEUM                                    2PM                      FRIDAY 2ND NOVEMBER
Penlee Park, Penzance, TR18 4HE, 01736 363625
Launching the Kernocopia Museum Activity Boxes
Suitable for all ages
Visit http://www.kernocopia.co.uk/about-us to learn more
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
Our Car-stickers and flags make drivers happy
Posted on June 26, 2012 by admin
Whether to Hertfordshire, Illinois or Abu Dhabi – we’re selling around the world
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
AberFest ’12
Posted on March 20, 2012 by admin
AberFest is a spectacular day of events celebrating the very best of Cornish and Breton culture in Falmouth on Saturday 7th April.
Watch the Grand Procession of Cornish & Breton musicians & dancers as it snakes its way through the town at 12.30pm. Then, during the afternoon, take in one of the many free Cornish & Breton performances in and around Custom House Quay.
To end a memorable and unique day come along to the Cornish & Breton dance night spectacular – the AberFest-Noz – held at the Princess Pavilion. Acoustic performances in the bar start at 6pm and the main event at 7pm.  Adults £11    Under 18’s £4.
AberFest-Noz tickets are available from
The Cornish Store or Princess Pavilion, Falmouth,
Hall for Cornwall, Truro and at AberFest  pre-events.
For more information please see our AberFest Facebook page or visit our website www.aberfest.org
﻿PRESS  RELEASE –  AberFest ‘ 12
AberFest ‘ 12 – Falmouth – Saturday 7th  April – Remembering Ron 10 years on.
AberFest ’12   returns to Falmouth to celebrate all things Cornish and Breton. The Grand Parade at 12.30 is followed by free performances of Cornish & Breton music and dance in and around Custom House Quay throughout the afternoon. The day’s events culminate with a special Cornish & Breton party dance night held at the Princess Pavilion. In all – a memorable and unique day!
Once again we expect many people to descend on Falmouth this Easter Saturday to watch and take part in one of the many free events that will be on in the afternoon in and around Custom House Quay. Many of our visitors will, I’m sure, be unaware that the first time the Bretons came en masse to Falmouth was at Easter 2002 and to specifically remember Ronnie Williams who died in December 2001 aged 80. The festival has evolved from this simple act of remembrance into the altogether bigger event we enjoy today.
Ronnie was a well known character in Falmouth who is fondly remembered by many people. He was born and lived there for most of his life and, after the tragic loss of his wife Iris at the tender age of 25 back in 1954, he threw himself into youth projects and other community activities. He was also a passionate supporter and performer of Cornish folk music as he was of the traditional music of Brittany. In later life he spent increasing amounts of time in Brandivy, Brittany, with his ‘adopted’ family and friends. He was well loved wherever he went; so much so that (since his passing) the people of Brandivy have created a beautiful Cornish Garden the “Jardin Cornuaillaise” in their village dedicated to his memory.
Another little known fact is that all the AberFest musicians, dancers and helpers give their time to the festival in the true spirit of friendship, that special quality Ronnie exemplified so well himself when he was alive and that is still felt throughout the festival today.
So when the good people of Cornwall line the streets and watch the AberFest Grand Procession as it snakes its way through the town or take in one of the free performances in and around Custom House Quay please remember that those taking part do so to honour the memory of one of the kindest people of his generation. Someone who, in spite of personal tragedy, threw himself into his community and really made a difference, someone whose kindness and passion is still remembered 10 years on.
The AberFestNoz is a Cornish & Breton dance night spectacular held at the Princess Pavilion. Acoustic performances in the Garden Bar start at 6pm and the main event at 7pm.  Adults £11  Under 18’s £4. AberFest-Noz tickets are available from
The Cornish Store or Princess Pavilion, Falmouth and the
Hall for Cornwall, Truro.
For more information please see our AberFest Facebook page or visit our website www.aberfest.org
AberFest is a constituted not for profit organisation. This year the Bretons come to us, next year we will go to Brittany. It has been this way since 2002. Families here will host our Breton guests in the true spirit of friendship, as will they when we go to Brittany.  We only raise money in order to cover the cost of holding the festival.
We very much appreciate all help you may be able to give with raising the profile of our event.
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
CORNISH ART COLLECTION
Posted on October 24, 2011 by admin
STUART HODGES  1933 – 2010
The Gentle Giant
Stuart was born in Port Navas, son of Sydney and Iris Hodges and the youngest of 1 brother, 4 sisters and 7 half sisters and brothers. He lived in Chestnut Cottage in the centre of Port Navas, a former pub called the ‘Jolly Sailor’. His elder brother Leonard was, just as grandfather and father before, manager of the Oyster Farm so Stuart joined him where he learnt how to dredge and cultivate native Helford oysters.
Having gained carpentry skills by spending time with a carpenter in Port Navas, Stuart used these skills to renovate two cottages in Well
Lane, Constantine which he and his wife Jill bought after their marriage in 1965. He made the two cottages into one and stayed there with Jill and their two sons, Lee and Adrian until 1975.  He left the oyster farm and they all went to Falmouth where they bought and ran Wentworth Guest House for 13 years.
Stuart loved the sea and was proud of the boats they owned, 18ft gaff rigged sloop, 16ft oyster punt and a 12ft rowing boat, all clinker built and moored in Port Navas.
After retirement Stuart developed his skill of painting. His love of the sea and the Cornish countryside is featured in all his paintings. He made authentic stone engine houses, the smallest of which measured 12 inches by 10 inches.  They were built of local stone and slate.  Stuart had cards printed from his paintings and together with these, his paintings and engine houses, he took them to local craft fairs where he sold many.  So his memory lives on.
Towards the end of his life he decided to draft an account of some of his early life and oyster farming. The subject of oyster farming is now dying out and he wanted the methods used to be preserved, but sadly he could not finish the project.
SEE Stuart’s collection
http://tinyurl.com/3q23yko
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
The Reel History of Britain – BBC2 15.9.2011
Posted on September 9, 2011 by admin
At 6.30
pm on Thursday 15th
September 2011, the episode of the above programme will feature the herring fishing industry in the 1920s, and will include the herring drifters of Yarmouth and Lowestoft plus the herring fishing at Port Isaac during that time.  Geoff Provis, whose great-grandfather and grand-father fished for herring at Port Isaac during the 1920s in the Boy Fletch, will discuss with Melvyn Bragg his boyhood growing up in a Cornish fishing community, and of course the method of fishing for herring during the 1920s.
Have a geek at Geoff Provis’ book section in our on-line shop
http://tinyurl.com/Geoff-Provis-books
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
An Guntelles Keltek, Bro Alba 2011 The Celtic Congress, Scotland 2011
Posted on August 6, 2011 by admin
An Guntelles Keltek, Bro Alba 2011
The Celtic Congress, Scotland 2011
This year, the International Celtic Congress met in Fort William, Scotland for its annual gathering, where the Scottish Branch was celebrating its centenary, and 150 years of the production of one of its local papers, the Oban Times.  Most of the six countries were well represented, including a delegation from Kernow/Cornwall.  Cornish members included Tony Piper, chairman, Jerry Rogers, treasurer and International treasurer, Will Manley entertainer from the Group, Pentorr, Ann Trevenen Jenkin, Life President and several other members.
The speaker on the Congress theme, with specific reference to Islands, how geography influences people in their linguistic and Cultural Landscape, was Dr Loveday Jenkin, environmental biologist and recently in charge of the Great Trees of Cornwall Project. Her illustrated power point presentation, on Cornwall as ‘almost an island’ both historically, linguistically and culturally, was extremely well received and was one of the best of the presentations.
The following motion was drafted and presented by Phil Rendell of the Cornish Branch and seconded by Dr. Loveday Jenkin at the AGM:-
This International conference of the Celtic Congress, meeting in Fort William, Scotland in 2011, calls on the UK government to pay full heed to the arguments outlined in the Cornish National Minority Report 2, to remove the barriers whereby the Cornish remain unrecognised, unequal and uncounted, and to enable the Cornish to receive the full protection they deserve as a national minority within the spirit of the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National minorities.
This motion was passed unanimously by the voting delegates from each country, and will now be sent to central government and to interested minority leaders in Parliament and other places.
Apart from the lectures and the AGM, other events included a welcome and reception from the Provost of Fort William, Gaelic lessons, a Young Peoples’ concert, a visit to a whisky distillery, an outing to Mallaig and Skye, a church service in Gaelic, and entertainment, good food and good company. It was one of the most successful and enjoyable congresses I have attended over the past fifty years.
Next year, the Congress will meet in August 2012 after the Lorient Festival, in Guingamp,
Brittany and the following year in 2013, it is to return to Cornwall. For further information or to become members, please email Tony Piper jamesapiper@btinternet.com or telephone 01209- 711509.
From: Ann Trevenen Jenkin, Kernow. An Gernyk, Fordh an Chapel, Leedstown, Hayle TR27 6BA. Tel. 01736-850332. Email: pellgowser@btinternet.com
© July 30th. 2011
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
Cornish Genius Richard Trevithick
Posted on April 11, 2011 by admin
240 years ago, on April
13th 1771, a Cornish Genius was born, Richard Trevithick, the engineer and inventor of The First Steam Locomotive in the world.
In 1801 Richard Trevithick produced a large steam road locomotive, the Puffing Devil. On Christmas Eve, 1801, his new locomotive took him and some friends on a short journey. Although the results were positive, Puffing Devil could not hold steam for long, which made its use impractical.
Despite that, proud Cornish folk and choirs all over the planet are still singing “Goin’ up Camborne Hill comin’ down”.
To honour his 240th anniversary we have produced a set of add-on stamps showing Penydarren , the first Steam Locomotive, built in 1804 by Richard Trevithick. It successfully run on rails and made three journeys between the Penydarren ironworks near Merthyr
Tydfil and the Merthyr-Cardiff
Canal. http://tinyurl.com/RichardTrevithick
Like many inventors and artists he died as a fairly poor, but justifiable proud man.
“However much I may be straitened in pecuniary circumstances, the great honour of being a useful subject can never be taken from me which, to me, far exceeds riches.”
Relatives of Richard Trevithick can be found all over the world including Japan. These Eastern descendants of Richard Trevithick presented Camborne on Trevithick Day 2004 with a golden replica of this very first Steam Locomotive in the world which can be admired in the Camborne Town Council Chambers.
Richard Trevithick advocated the use of high-pressure steam, and his experiments paved the way for all subsequent developments in railway engines with Stevenson being one of them, but Cornishman Richard Trevithick was first, make no mistake!
Richard Trevithick 13th April 1771 – 22nd April 1833
Posted in Cornish Heritage
|
Leave a comment
← Older posts
Search for:
Cornish Heritage shop
Shop Cornish here
Recent Posts
The Afterlife of our web-shop
Western Morning News 22.1.13 – RICHARD TREVITHICK
PICROUS NIGHT 2012 with Will Coleman
STORYTELLING with WILL COLEMAN
Our Car-stickers and flags make drivers happy
Archives
April 2014
January 2013
December 2012
September 2012
June 2012
March 2012
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
Categories
Cornish Heritage
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Cornish HeritageBard
Charter of Pardon
Cornish History
Cornish pardon
Donald Rawe
Douglas Williams
Duchy
Henry VII England
Padstow
postage stamps
Spargo
veto
February 2017
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Apr
12345
6789101112
13141516171819
20212223242526
2728
Categories
Cornish Heritage
Cornish Heritage shop
Shop Cornish here
Recent Posts
The Afterlife of our web-shop
Western Morning News 22.1.13 – RICHARD TREVITHICK
PICROUS NIGHT 2012 with Will Coleman
STORYTELLING with WILL COLEMAN
Our Car-stickers and flags make drivers happy
Cornish Heritage
Proudly powered by WordPress.
