Sell House Fast Scotland | Quick House Sale in 7 Days
Tel: 0844 504 4714
Home
Who we help
Benefits
FAQ’s
Contact Us
News
We can give you an instant valuation and buying price so that you can sell your home QUICK.
We can also
pay your survey, home report and legal costs saving you from paying fees
that usually come with with selling your home.
We offer you an online valuation, supported by price data on properties in your area.
Full Name*Contact Number*Email Address*Post Code*Estimated Property Value*PhoneThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Sell House Fast Scotland | Quick House Sale Company
We provide a safe and convenient way to sell your home quickly, with the utmost discretion and speed. Our property professionals can give you either an online or over the phone valuation allowing you to measure whether to sell your house quickly or go through the more traditional estate agents route.
Our offices are based in Glasgow where we run our sell house fast scotland operations and London where we buy in England and Wales both directly and through partner companies. Our ability to make a quick buying decision on any type of property whether it be residential such as a flat, house or apartment or commercial – including offices, factories and industrial buildings places us uniquely as one of the UK’s most innovative property companies.
We understand that selling your home can be a time consuming and emotionally challenging experience – which is why we focus on making the whole process as simple as possible – once our specialists visit you – you will be given an absolute copper bottom guaranteed price on your home. This certainty means that you are then free to make the decision that you want to make in relation to moving on yourself.
With Cornovia you have the peace of mind of dealing with the most professional property buying group in Scotland and the facet that when we make an offer on a property it sticks. No more waiting to hear from agents, or waiting or viewers of living in fear of some kind of breakdown on the buyers side – when we make an offer your property is sold and stay sold.
Contact us today to find out how much your property is worth – we have representatives who are authorized to make a sell house fast offer in Glasgow and over in our Edinburgh office too.
Selling at auction.
As one of Scotland’s leading property buying companies we work hard to find as many exits as possible for your home. This means that in addition to making you a cash offer, we can also work with pre qualified investors and auction companies. You may find that if it is not crititcal to get an instant offer one of our alternative option might help you to achieve a higher price for your home – we have property auctions scotland as a partner and we are happy to work with you to achieve the best outcome and maximum value.
With buyers being wary before they commit and with the ongoing scarcity of mortgage financing the market is still a little subdued – you can work with us to get a same day offer and move on in terms of your home and your life. If you are looking to sell your house quickly get in touch with us today.
Contact Us Cornovia Property
176 St Vincent Street
Glasgow
G2 5SG
Tel: 0844 504 4714
Keep in Touch
What We Do Who we help
Benefits
FAQ's
Contact Us
Legal Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Be sociable and share
Copyright © 2012 Repossession Scotland. All Rights Reserved
