Cornwall Consultants | Helping protect property from the ground up
01209 313511
enquiries@cornwallconsultants.co.uk
Facebook
Twitter
Facebook
Twitter
0 Items
Home
About
About Us
FAQ
Our Team
Friends & Partners
Services
Mining Searches
Mining Investigations
Foundation Trench and Property Inspections
Abandoned Mine Inspection
Mine Remediation and Ground Stabilisation
Contaminated Land
Mundic Tests
Geotechnical Services and Slope Stability
MineScanner
Order
Order Mining Search
Account Mining Search Orders
New Account Registration
Phase I Contamination Report
News
Contact
Select Page
Mining Searches
A desk-top Mining Search is an essential part of conveyancing and remortgaging for properties and new developments within Cornwall, Devon and Somerset.
Order Search
MineScanner
Check if your property needs a Mining Search using our unique MineScanner tool. Just enter the postcode and MineScanner does the rest.
Search
Contaminated Land Assessments
Heavy metals are present within soils in some areas of Cornwall and Devon. Contaminated Land risk assessments are a standard requirement for planning and development purposes.
Find Out More
Mundic Tests
The term “Mundic” refers to sub-standard concrete used in construction in the southwest. A Mundic Test is required for the conveyancing of buildings of a certain age.
Find Out More
Mining Investigations
A supervised ground investigation is necessary when a mining risk requires further assessment.
Find Out More
1. Do I need a mining search?
MineScanner
Find out if a Metalliferous or Bath Stone Mining Search is required in Cornwall, Devon, Somerset or West Wiltshire. Click the icon to enter a postcode.
2. Order A Mining Search
It’s easier than ever to order and pay for your mining search online through Cornwall Consultants – just click on the icon to the left to order and our experts will start preparing your report.
U
Mining Searches
For many centuries Mining was a widespread industry in the southwest that has left a legacy of hidden shafts and workings that present a risk of subsidence.
Our Mining Searches assess this risk and are prepared by an experienced team using our extensive mining archive.
Order Search
s
Contamination Studies
Heavy metals within soils of Cornwall & Devon can be naturally elevated or concentrated by past mining. The multi-phase assessment of this risk is a standard Condition of Planning Permission for new development and is often required during conveyancing.
Order Report

Mundic Testing
“Mundic” is a term that refers to sub-standard concrete where reactive aggregates have been used in construction in the southwest (used in the construction of buildings prior to 1950). A Mundic Test is a requirement of the Council of Mortgage Lenders as part of property conveyancing.
Find Out More

Mining Investigations
A supervised ground investigation is necessary when a mining risk requires further assessment.
This is designed to appraise the nature of the hazard in detail, whilst addressing the specifics of the property and needs of the client.
Find Out More
Latest News
Happy 25th Christmas from Cornwall Consultants Ltd!
Dec 23, 2016 This year Cornwall Consultants Ltd celebrated 25 years of mining consultancy excellence in the South West. Staff have just celebrated with a 25th anniversary Christmas Party and are looking forward to a well-earned Christmas break. But we’re already preparing for the new year and many exciting changes. See you all in 2017!
read more
Historic Mining Conference a Big Hit with Property Professionals!
Oct 7, 2016 The event, which formed part of Cornwall Consultants’ 25 year anniversary saw over 120 local property professionals receive expert presentations on mining subsidence; contaminated land and mundic concrete.
read more
Phase 1 Contamination Reports now online
May 16, 2016 Thanks to our friends at SeaDog IT, we have become the first locally based company to offer online ordering of Phase I Land Contamination Assessments. Just go to the orders tab and follow the simple step by step instructions. Our website is secure and has full functionality on smart phones and tablets, so you can even order your Phase 1 report whilst on site!
read more
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Site Admin
Cornwall Consultants Limited | Parc Vean House | Coach Lane | Redruth | Cornwall | TR15 2TT | Registered office address as above. Registered in England and Wales. Registered No.4578850
Website Design & Hosting - SeaDog IT
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
