Hall for Cornwall
Toggle navigation
Order for
Your shopping Basket is empty.
BOX OFFICE: 01872 262466       Book Tickets
What's On
Other Events
Your Visit
About Us
Eat & Drink
Get Involved
Artists Support
Support Us
My Account
Order for
Your shopping Basket is empty.
Thu 23 & Fri 24 March
Rambert: Ghost Dances
Tue 16 - Sat 20 May
Joseph and his Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat
Mon 13 - Wed 15 March
Babe, The Sheep-Pig
Mon 17 - Sat 22 April
Dirty Dancing
Tue 4 - Sat 8 April
Nell Gwynn
Mon 6 - Sat 11 March
A Judgement in Stone
search    events
Search Events
Show Date Range
to
Upcoming Shows
Latest News
Arts Development at Hall for Cornwall
Alongside the work on the main stage at Hall for Cornwall, our Arts Development team work across the whole county, delivering a range of artistic events within the community and creating opportunities in care homes, schools and colleges, museums, galleries and gardens for professional artists, young people and those who may not have the means to engage with live performance.
We also support six Resident Companies locally: o-region, cube essential theatre, Cscape, James Wilton Dance, ‘Owdyado Theatre and Rogue Theatre. In 2015, we funded Creation Space Residencies at Cornish venues from Penzance to Liskeard, with artists collaborating on the development of brand new work. This year, we are working to support even more artists and their professional practice.
For further information on all of our Arts Development activity, please visit Get Involved and Artist Support pages.
Sign up to our newsletter
Would you like to stay in touch with us? Of course you would. Be the first to hear about new shows and events, exclusive promotions and offers and receive all the latest news and events going on at our theatre.
Join here
Donate to Hall for Cornwall
If you would like to support Hall for Cornwall you may make a donation by the following the link below.
Make a donation
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Hall For Cornwall - All Rights Reserved
Hall For Cornwall - All Rights Reserved
Work with Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
