Hopsland Holidays, Self Catering Holiday Accommodation on the edge of Bodmin Moor, Cornwall
Welcome to Hopsland Holidays, Commonmoor, Liskeard, Cornwall PL14 6EJ
On the edge of Bodmin Moor
Our three self catering barn conversion holiday cottages lie just 150 yards from the edge of Bodmin Moor.
Bodmin Moor offers miles of beautiful walks over open moorland where you can explore prehistoric remains and Cornish mining heritage
Trethevy Quoit on Bodmin Moor
Local Attractions
Golitha Falls which has lovely woodland walks and Siblyback Lake which offers watersports, fly fishing, birdwatching and lakeside walks as well as a cafe, are
just a short drive.
Days Out
Hopsland is an ideal holiday base being within easy reach of both the north and south coasts of Cornwall with miles of sandy beaches, coastal walks
and traditional fishing villages.
The Eden Project, Lost Gardens of Heligan and Lanhydrock are also good days out.
The self catering accommodation
The holiday cottages sleep from between 4 to 6 people. The accommodation is laid out with the lounges upstairs
to take best advantage of the beautiful views. The barns face south west, enjoying beautiful sunsets.
Clean, well equipped cottages
We are proud of how we present our holiday cottages to you. Comfort and cleanliness rate high on our agenda.
Our cottages have been awarded the Visit England 4 Star Rating for self catering accommodation.
If you are looking for good quality holiday accommodation in a quiet corner
of Cornwall then look no further!
Families welcome
We are delighted to have families with children to stay on holiday in this peaceful area of
outstanding natural beauty.
Kayaking at Siblyback Lake
Dog Friendly
We welcome up to 2 dogs per cottage free of charge. We have set aside a field for our guests to exercise their dogs.
Horses
If you want to bring your horse on holiday with you, we have a further field (with shelter). There is a charge of £10 per day.
Wildlife Pond
Our wildlife pond continues to evolve with lots of ducks and Mr Heron visits on a regular basis to the delight of the birdwatchers among our guests.
The pond can be viewed from the windows of the holiday cottages and guests are welcome to take a gentle stroll to the waters edge.
Poldark TV Series
In 2014 we were proud to be associated with the Poldark TV series by providing accommodation in our holiday barns for the grooms.
The carriage horses also stayed at Hopsland for the filming on Bodmin Moor.
A warm welcome all year round
Our holiday cottages offer a delightful place to stay at any time of the year.
A welcome pack of milk, free range eggs and fresh bread awaits you on arrival
and there is ample parking for at least 2 cars per cottage.
Linda and Neil Hosken
Hopsland Holidays
Commonmoor, Liskeard
Cornwall PL14 6EJ
Tel: 01579 344480 / 07796 464051
Home
The Barns
Availability & Tariff
Guests' Comments
Things to do
How to find us
Booking Enquiries
Disclaimer
(c) Last updated 19/02/2017
Website developed by WesternWeb
