Mad Cornish Projectionist Services - Mad Cornish Projectionist Services
To help us improve this website we would like to place cookies on your computer. For more information on these cookies please see our privacy notice.
I consent to allow this site to use cookies.
Jump to Content
Contact
We Can Still Show Film |
Cinema, Film & Projection Heritage Network |
The Mad Cornish Projectionist
Home
Blog
News
About
Projectionism
Cinema
Digital
Links
Non-Cinema
Cinema Technology Committee Next Course Details
Course Details
Created on January 27th, 2017. Last updated on January 27th, 2017.
JOB OPPORTUNITY: Technical Support Manager
Cinema Next are looking for a Technical Support Manager. You can find a job description and details on how to apply here.
Created on January 26th, 2017. Last updated on January 27th, 2017.
Welcome
Created on January 12th, 2017. Last updated on January 12th, 2017.
December 2016 Edition of Cinema Technology Magazine now available
The latest edition of the fantastic industry leading journal – Cinema Technology Magazine is now out and can be read, free, via the website.
Enjoy Cinema Technology magazine.Publication Dates are April, June, September, December
Created on December 2nd, 2016. Last updated on December 2nd, 2016.
2017 Edition of Screentrade Magazines’ International Directory Release
The 2017 edition of this popular and useful international directory from Screentrade Magazine has just been released. It is packed with even more information and companies that previous editions covering everything you need to run a cinema. It is an absolute must for everyone in the industry. You can get more information and order your copy via the Screentrade Magazine website. There is also an online version available via: http://sidonline.screentrademagazine.com/
Created on February 23rd, 2016. Last updated on January 31st, 2017.
Welcome
Hello and welcome to my website. This site has been in existence in one form or another since 1997 and originally aimed to look at the world of the Projectionist, the Projector and the cinema industry as a whole. Over the years it has grown and expanded but its aim is to provide information about this part of the entertainment industry.
Today as technology and cinema has changed there is additional information on other areas of projection, whether it is in a non-traditional local venue, projection mapping, 360 degree or any other environment where a projected image is used to tell a story.
The site continues to aim to look at everything from the earliest cinema technology through to whatever the future has to hold, and everything in between. By far the largest part of this site is now as a news resource providing curated information on the technical and business side of cinema, but also with longer ‘blog’ articles – if you want to see what the latest article I have written is, then head over to the blog contents page.
For a long introduction to the website, then read the introduction section.
Created on October 20th, 2015. Last updated on October 20th, 2015.
Latest News
Barco Calls for an HDR Standard | Digital Cinema Report
A TV actor has called on Plymouth to save Reel Cinema | Plymouth Herald
Alamo Drafthouse Cinema Set To Open This Spring – Story
Wales’ oldest cinema ‘overwhelmed’ by support in the campaign to re-open its doors – Wales Online
DRESCHEL: Local group buys Westdale Theatre
Largest Cinema Workers Strike in UK History – BECTU
European Cinema Admissions Hit 1.27 Billion in 2016 | Variety
Screen wars: Two new 10-screen cinemas to open on the same day – here’s how they measure up… (From Bournemouth Echo)
Company Finances Keep track of how various cinema companies are performing. Simply click on a link below and it will take you to a page of information
Cineworld
Dolby Laboratories
National Amusements
Imax
This site is hosted by AWKE,
designed by Andrew Millar
and written by Peter J Knight FBKS
Copyright © 1997-2015
Email the webmaster at: webmaster@madcornishprojectionist.co.uk
Phone: +447747 193447
Mad Cornish Projectionist Services is a trading style of Peter J. Knight Ltd, Company Number: 09831958.
Home
Blog
News
About
Projectionism
Cinema
Digital
Links
Non-Cinema
Copyright © Peter J Knight
