Register a .EU.COM domain today!
Search for your .EU.COM domain today, excellent names still available...
Search
hackett.eu.com
palmolive.eu.com
walkabout.eu.com
kodakgallery.eu.com
bme.eu.com
High profile companies choose EU.COM as their preferred domain extension
Domains are Good for Business
.EU.COM domains combine a European identity with the .com ending that attracts 90.2% of all internet traffic (source: FairWinds), offering maximum local and global visibility for your business.
High availability of names means that you don’t have to compromise with an eu.com domain.
.EU.COM is 100% commercial, with no affiliation with European government institutions.
.EU.COM domains are not restricted to European Union citizens - registrants from Switzerland, Russia, Norway, Monaco, Croatia, Iceland, Serbia etc welcome.
Perfect for companies outside Europe wishing to market to Europeans online.
.EU.COM domains have enjoyed over 10 years of success through leading registrars worldwide.
On June 7, 2000, The Financial Times announced: “CentralNic has launched a global single market in '.eu.com'.” For a decade now, companies from all over the world have used .eu.com domains to tell the world that they are open for business in Europe. We at CentralNic are immensely proud of this achievement, and we are excited to welcome an ever-increasing number of companies to the world of European e-commerce.
Ben Crawford (CEO) - CentralNic
Make a Name for Your Business
Good business ideas deserve equally good names, and good names deserve to be known. Don’t compromise, secure the name you want and the one that best describes your business.
It’s simple, search .EU.COM's enviable bank of available names and register today. Bring your business to life, make an entrance.
Visit one of our registrar partners to secure your perfect .EU.COM business name.
Become an
Registrar
.EU.COM is represented by leading registrars worldwide, including eNom, Euro DNS, Gandi, Network Solutions, and United Domains.
.EU.COM satisfies the market need for a premium domain extension with great names still available, and follows the success of US.COM in the USA, UK.COM in the UK and CN.COM in China.
Offer your customers a great name in European business today. Integration is simple and complete technical and marketing support is provided.
© Copyright CentralNic Ltd. All Rights Reserved. www.centralnic.com
