Polhilsa Farm, Bed and Breakfast and Self Catering Accommodation, Venue for Weddings and Conferences
Home
Accommodation
Weddings & Special Occasions
Conferences
Things to do
Fishing
Location
Enquiries
Welcome to Polhilsa Farm
Polhilsa Farm is a 350 acre working arable farm offering bed and breakfast and self catering accommodation; weddings and special occasions;
conference and meeting facilities in a range of attractively converted barns.
Bed and Breakfast
Offering a variety of bed and breakfast and self catering accommodation, Polhilsa is able to meet the majority of peoples needs.
Quality graded en-suite bed and breakfast accommodation is available in the form of four individual rooms based within a converted barn.
All rooms are equipped and furnished to a high specification and each room is able to accommodate either 3 or 4 persons thus making a variety
of occupancy combinations available from single persons up to larger family or group gatherings.
Although there are a small number of steps,
the two ground floor rooms make the accommodation accessible to visitors with certain specific needs or mobility problems.
Self Catering Accommodation
The Boathouse sleeps a maximum of 2 persons and is situated on the waters edge.
Leading off the bedroom is a balcony where guests can sit and enjoy the constant activity on the lakes or absorb the stunning views across to Caradon.
Dairy (sleeping up to 4 persons), Parlour (sleeping up to 6 persons) and Moey (sleeping up to 8 persons) are individual cottages sharing the same
roof. Dairy and Moey cottages offer reversed living accommodation and enjoy exceptional views across the lakes whilst Parlour cottage
has French doors leading off the lounge at the rear of the property and overlooks the large shared lawn where guests can simply sit and relax.
Weddings and Functions
At Polhilsa, we are also well equipped to host special events such as weddings and parties.
The large garden beside the lake is an ideal
spot for a marquee that will host weddings and other functions up to approximately 180 people. For the smaller more intimate event, our
Hospitality suite proves a superb location for your gathering.
Conference and Meetings
We are also able to host conferences and meetings and various packages are
available to enable the hirer to build an impressive event that delegates will remember.
Catering facilities are available and Bed and Breakfast accommodation may also be available on site.
The room layout is adaptable to meet individual requirements and WiFi is available.
Coast and Moorland
Polhilsa is just a few miles from the Devon/ Cornwall border making both counties accessible to visitors. Within a short drive,
guests can explore Dartmoor or Bodmin Moor - both areas of outstanding natural beauty and offering some of the most breathtaking views.
Centrally situated between North and South coasts, Polhilsa provides an excellent base for viewing the rugged North Cornish coastline or the
quaint fishing villages of the South Coast. Guests often make their selection of beach on a daily basis according to the weather!
Places to Visit
Situated just 2 miles north of Callington, the market towns of Liskeard, Launceston and Tavistock are all close by as is Plymouth with its
Barbican and Hoe, both steeped with history. Several National Trust properties are within an easy drive from Polhilsa and several beautiful
gardens may be toured in Devon and Cornwall. Should the weather prove unkind, a variety of indoor attractions are located in the area.
Polhilsa is also well situated for a several Golf Clubs in particular the internationally renowned St. Mellion International which is a mere
10 minute drive away.
Down on the Farm
The main farming enterprise at Polhilsa is arable, growing crops such as barley, wheat, oats, beans and oilseed rape.
Guests are often greeted by a patchwork of fields dependent on the season. Fields growing corn, stubble or the ploughed fields of autumn surround
lush green grass fields on which sheep can often be seen grazing.
Fishing, Wildlife and Birdwatching
Guests are welcome to simply relax in the garden, enjoy our beautiful countryside
and watch the abundance of wildlife and waterfowl that visit Polhilsa on a daily basis - watch out for the resident kingfisher, owl or pair of herons
to name but a few.Almost 50 species of birds have been recorded at Polhilsa so there should be plenty to keep you occupied!
Or why not take a gentle stroll by the lakes in the evening where you may see a spectacular sunset
Fishing is FREE to guests staying at Polhilsa. Please note, however, guests are expected to bring their own fishing equipment and bait. A current NRA licence obtainable from many Post Offices is required before you can fish the lakes.
Contact:
Kay & Margaret Barriball
Polhilsa FarmCallingtonCornwall PL17 8PP Tel: 01579 370784
Email: enquiries@polhilsa.co.uk
Home
Bed and Breakfast Accommodation
Bed and Breakfast Availability
Polhilsa Barns (Self Catering)
The Boathouse (Self Catering)
Tariff & Special Offers
Access Statement
Book Bed & Breakfast
Book Self Catering
Fishing Lakes
Things to Do
How to Find Us
Enquiries
Terms of Business
(c) Last updated 19th February 2017
Website developed by WesternWeb
