Welcome - Postcards of Cornwall
Postcards of Cornwall
Historical Images of Old Cornwall
Privacy Policy
Site Manager
Contact
eBid Cornish cards
eBay Cornish cards
My eBay Shop
Links
Gallery
Create account or Sign in
Home
Diary
Cards For Sale
Postcards
Isles of Scilly
West Penwith
East Penwith
Kerrier
Powder
Pydar
Lesnewth
Trigg
Stratton
West Wivelshire
East Wivelshire
Black Torrington
Miscellaneous
Site
Random Page
Site Map
List all Pages
Recent Changes
Tag Cloud
Top 20 Tags
Bookmark or Share
Visitors
☜✵ஐ✵☞
© Chris Bond 2005-17
Welcome
Pendarves Street, Tuckingmill, Camborne, c.1910
Welcome to Postcards of Cornwall. This site features many hundreds of images of postcards, mainly from the first few decades of the 20th century, from all over Cornwall. The site already contains more than 500 postcards of Cornwall, from the Isles of Scilly in the south west to Morwenstow in the north east, and many hundreds more will be added as and when time allows.
This site is basically an updated version of the postcard pages from the now defunct A Cornish Sourcebook which closed in October 2009. All of the postcards featured on A Cornish Sourcebook have now been moved to this new site. News of upcoming postcard fairs in Cornwall can now be found on the Diary page.
Of course, many visitors will be happy to browse, but if you are looking for postcards of any specific place then there are several different ways of searching. If you know which hundred and parish your preferred town or village is in, then you can go straight to the sections listed on the side menu. If you don't know which hundred your preferred location is in then you can look at either the Site Map or the List all Pages indexes. If you are looking for postcards of a particular subject, such as chapels or mining, then the Tag Cloud will bring up a list of all tags attached to each page. Clicking on the tags will bring up a list of all pages featuring that tag. This can also be useful when searching for a particular town or village. The search box at the top right of each page will bring up all pages featuring your search; so, for example, a search for Redruth will bring up not only postcards of Redruth, but all other pages featuring postcards published in Redruth.
There is also a Gallery on the top menu. This features thumbnails of every single postcard on the site; useful for browsing. The postcards are shown in alphabetical order. Finally, the Recent Changes page will show which pages on the site have most recently been updated, and when.
Please note that this website is copyright of Chris Bond. If you wish to include any of these images on your own site then please contact me and as long as a link to this site is included alongside any images used then I will probably be happy to oblige, although I cannot give permission to use images from cards owned by others. The description for each card on this site will always state if the card is from someone else's collection. Publishers and broadcasters are welcome to contact me with regard to the provision, where possible, of high resolution images, though as I do sell postcards on it may not always be possible to access the original.
Postcards From This Site and Others For Sale
page revision: 40, last edited: 14 Jan 2017 02:30
Edit
Tags
History
Files
Print
Site tools
+ Options
Edit Sections
Append
Edit Meta
Watchers
Backlinks
Page Source
Parent
Lock Page
Rename
Delete
Help
|
Terms of Service
|
Privacy
|
Report a bug
|
Flag as objectionable
Powered by Wikidot.com
Click here to edit contents of this page.
Click here to toggle editing of individual sections of the page (if possible).
Watch headings for an "edit" link when available.
Append content without editing the whole page source.
Check out how this page has evolved in the past.
If you want to discuss contents of this page - this is the easiest way to do it.
View and manage file attachments for this page.
A few useful tools to manage this Site.
See pages that link to and include this page.
Change the name (also URL address, possibly the category) of the page.
View wiki source for this page without editing.
View/set parent page (used for creating breadcrumbs and structured layout).
Notify administrators if there is objectionable content in this page.
Something does not work as expected? Find out what you can do.
General Wikidot.com documentation and help section.
Wikidot.com Terms of Service - what you can, what you should not etc.
Wikidot.com Privacy Policy.
