Rylands Holiday Cottages, Altarnun, Cornwall
Rylands farmhouse and Rylands
holiday cottage date from 1750. Nestling in a rural location half a mile from the picturesque award-winning village of Altarnun, Rylands is the perfect retreat for those seeking peace and tranquillity. Set in an area of outstanding natural beauty with Moors to one side and the stunning North Cornwall coast on the other it’s the perfect location to explore Cornwall and Devon. Altarnun has a Post Office with general store and an excellent butchers shop together with a famous church known as the Cathedral on the Moor. Walking less than a mile in either direction brings you one of the two traditional local pubs serving excellent meals, real ale, and cider! Leave your car at the cottage!
Rylands is the ideal base for walking. Explore mystical Bodmin Moor including spectacular Roughtor and Cornwall’s highest peak Brown Willy.
Visit Du Maurier’s infamous Jamaica Inn, see Dozmary Pool where King Arthur’s sword excalibur rose. The spectacular Cornwall Coastal Path is only 10 miles away. Bring your walking boots!
The nearest town is the ancient capital of Cornwall, Launceston. The town dubbed the gateway to Cornwall has old narrow streets a Norman Castle and a Steam Railway. It has the usual facilities plus a leisure centre and excellent 18-hole golf course.
North Cornwall’s rugged coastline equals any in the world. Stunning beaches, surfing, cliff top walks, sunbathing, (it never rains in Cornwall!) and some of the most beautiful fishing villages in the Southwest. The delights of Port Isaac, Padstow, Tintagel, Boscastle, and Rock are all a short drive away. Why not come out of season and walk on virtually deserted sandy beaches?
Just 1 mile from the A30
Trout fishing 200 metres
Horse riding nearby
Cycle the famous Camel Trail
30 min drive to the Eden Project and
the Lost Gardens of Heligan
Port Isaac and Padstow within easy reach
Golf and children’s leisure park at Trethorne closeby
Rylands, Altarnun, Launceston, Cornwall, PL15 7RF. Tel: 01566 86396
17th February 2017
site by WesternWeb Ltd
©
