South East Cornwall Conservatives | and Sheryll Murray MP
Skip to main content
South East Cornwall Conservatives
and Sheryll Murray MP
Main navigation
Home
About Us
Candidates
Contact us
Cornwall Councillors
Download Poster
Electoral Info
News
Newspaper
Police & Crime Commissioner
Town Councillors
Visit Cornwall
Welcome to our site
Thank you for visiting our website
Here you will find news of local political events; activities and policies; our events diary; some national news and views and how to contact Sheryll Murray MP, local councillors and MEPs across South East Cornwall.
We are keen to have your views. If you have any comments then please feel free to contact us.
The bar under the main logo, above (with Home, About Us, etc), shows the main sections of the site. Each section then has several related pages you can reach listed under the In this section sidebar to the upper left of the page.
Sheryll Murray MP Constituency Office: 01579 344428
South East Cornwall Conservatives: 01579 533013
Featured Story
MP keen to see broadband improvements for residentsWednesday, 15 February, 2017
Broadband is a real issue in many parts of my constituency.  With this in mind, I wrote and asked Matthew Hancock MP Minister for the Digital and Culture, how my constituents could check their broadband speed and what alternative connectivity options were available to them.  I am pleased to share his response. He said:
Read news story
Local News
Call for staff and services for the NHS in Saltash
Local MP Sheryll Murray has been in communication with the NHS over the news…
Gunnislake homes under threat of compulsory purchase because of Cornwall Council policy
Peter Booth, the Conservative candidate for Gunnislake & Calstock, has…
At least let Dennis Hutchings
go on holiday
Today local MP Sheryll Murray has called for a speedy conclusion to the case of…
More local news
National News
350,000 more people in work
Between June and September this year unemployment fell by 37,000 and since last year 350,000 more people now have a full time job.
Lowering the cap on benefits
UK GDP growth
Figures released by the Office of National Statistics show that between July and September 2016, the British economy grew by 0.5%, meaning our economy has grown by over 1
More national news
Our Map
This map shows the extent of the geographical area that we serve. This is the area of the United Kingdom that we represent on behalf of the Conservative Party.Clicking on the arrow below reveals a map of events and news articles near you, that will grow over time. Individual events and news articles are represented by pins of different colours and you will be able to click on them to find out more information.
View our map
Tweets by @sheryllmurray
Donate
We rely on the support of individuals like you.
Join or Renew
Help us take action on local issues and build a better Britain.
Get email updates
Stay informed on the latest news.
Your email
First name
Last name
Postcode
Your contact details are used in accordance with our Data Collection and Use policy. By clicking "Sign up" you agree to your email address being used in accordance with that policy. We will not share your details with anyone outside the Conservative Party.
Campaigning for the people of South East Cornwall
Coming soon
Surgery East
Saturday, 25th February 2017
09:00am - 10:00am - Torpoint Conservative Club 10:30am - 12:00pm - Saltash Counc...
Surgery West
Saturday, 11th March 2017
09:00 – 09:30 – Restormel Lodge Hotel, Lostwithiel 10:00 – 11:30 – Liskeard Cons...
Surgery East
Saturday, 25th March 2017
09:00am - 10:00am - Torpoint Conservative Club 10:30am - 12:00pm - Saltash Counc...
View all
South East Cornwall Conservatives and Sheryll Murray MP
Footer
About RSS
Accessibility
Cookies
Privacy policy
Promoted by R. Davidson on behalf of South East Cornwall Conservatives & Sheryll Murray both at Carvynick Country Club, Summercourt, Newquay TR8 5AF
About Us
Become a Candidate
Contact us
Cornwall Councillors
Get a postal vote
Membership
Publications
Town Councillors
Copyright 2017 South East Cornwall Conservatives and Sheryll Murray MP.
All rights reserved.
Powered by Bluetree
