Tamar Valley Cottages - Home
01409 271284
Home
Cottages
View All Cottages
Hendra
Treneglos
Bodrugan
Penhale
The Cottage Grounds
Seasons at Tamar Valley Cottages
Availability / Tariff
View All Availability
Hendra Availability
Treneglos Availability
Bodrugan Availability
Penhale Availability
Testimonials
Location
How to find us
Places to Visit
>
Local Attractions
Local Beaches
Places to Eat Out
Blog
Contact
"The perfect escape from the stresses and strains of modern life"
Dog friendly self-catering holiday accommodation for Cornwall and Devon
View the Holiday Cottages
The self-catering holiday accommodation at Tamar Valley Cottages offers peace and tranquillity whilst still being within a short drive of some of the West Country’s most stunning unspoilt beaches, spectacular coastal paths and wild moors.
Set within the beautiful extensive grounds of North Tamerton’s old rectory, Tamar Valley Cottages offer panoramic views over unspoilt countryside towards Dartmoor and lie close to the edge of Ruby Country in ‘undiscovered Devon’. There is plenty to do – whether it be exploring the traditional market towns of Holsworthy, Launceston and Tavistock, visiting the vibrant coastal resort of Bude, or just relaxing on the numerous unspoilt Cornish beaches. You can be sure to enjoy some of the finest local produce and hospitality in the country.Read more about what makes our luxury cottages so special!
Fun for the whole familyOur grounds are large, safe and enclosed, and our play area (especially our trampoline) is a hit among our younger guests.  Better still, we're in a great location for exploring some great family friendly attractions in Cornwall and Devon - from farm parks to fun pools, sandcastles to secret gardens - let the West Country capture your family's imagination at Tamar Valley Cottages. Read more about our child friendly holiday cottages!
Dog friendly holidaysWe pride ourselves on being pet friendly and dogs are welcome in all of the cottages so there is no need for your four legged friend to miss out on the fantastic walks that await!  Our spacious grounds are great for stretching legs, and there is a wealth of dog-friendly beaches and walks within easy reach. Read more about what we can offer your dogs!
An ideal holiday baseTamar Valley Cottages provide an ideal holiday base for couples and families with easy access to evocative villages such as Clovelly, Port Isaac, Tintagel and Padstow. Explore slightly further afield and you will find the possibilities are endless.  You can do as little or as much as you like when staying at Tamar Valley Cottages – relax and enjoy the mature gardens with a glass of wine and a book, watch the children play in the orchard play area, or explore the best that Devon and Cornwall has to offer…..the choice is yours!Read more about activities in the area!
Read our guide to the Poldark Filming locations
Stories of the South-WestCornwall and Devon have long been the setting of some of the nation’s favourite stories, from the ancient legend of King Arthur to popular televised dramas like Poldark and Doc Martin.  Do you fancy a pint at the real Jamaica Inn?  Feel like exploring Merlin’s Cave and King Arthur’s castle?    Make Tamar Valley Cottages your base, and you will have a great position from which to explore famous locations in both counties.
Read more about famous storiesof the South West here
For news and special offers, join our mailing list below
Name *
First
Last
Email *
Please enter your email address to join our mailing list.
We never sell or share your information with third parties.Read our Privacy Policy for more details.
Subscribe
Telephone
01409 271284   /  07860 726957
Email
bookings@tamarvalleycottages.co.uk
Social Media
Tamar Valley Cottages, North Tamerton House, North Tamerton, Cornwall, EX22 6SA
Stargazy Solutions Web Design   -  © Copyright Tamar Valley Cottages 2016, All rights reserved unless otherwise stated
✕
