The Watermark, Bed and Breakfast Accommodation in Looe, Cornwall
Home
Webcams
Rooms
Breakfast
Availability
Tariff
Things to do
Directions
Contact us
The Watermark has undoubtably the best views in Looe.
The Watermark is situated in quiet West Looe overlooking the sandy family beach, town and little fishing harbour of Looe and commands panoramic views
over the famous Banjo Pier, along the coast to Rame Head and out to sea. It is the perfect place for a traditional holiday by the sea in Cornwall.
Our Bed and Breakfast Rooms
We offer double and family rooms. All our bed and breakfast rooms are ensuite and stylishly furnished to a high standard and all have sea views. Four of our B&B; rooms have private balconies
where you can relax and take in the breathtaking views.
Breakfast and Afternoon Tea
A hearty award winning Cornish breakfast is served to start off your day. A complimentary homemade Cornish cream tea is served to guests
each afternoon in the dining room. There is also
an honesty bar so that you can sample a local ale or cider or a refreshing glass of wine in the lounge area while enjoying
some of the best sea views in the West Country.
Free Parking
There is free on site parking- a bonus in itself here in Looe!! The bridge which crosses the river into the town and main beach is a short walk down from The Watermark.
Explore Cornwall
Looe is a good holiday base for exploring the many attractions of Cornwall. The Eden Project,
The Lost Gardens of Heligan and some of the finest
National Trust houses and gardens are a short drive.Looe is on the branch train line off the main
Penzance to Plymouth line, so why not leave the car behind and let the
train take the strain while you explore Cornwall! Newquay, Truro, Falmouth, Penzance and St Ives are all accessible by train.
You need a Frames Capable browser to view this content.
Latest News and Offers
THE WATERMARK WINTER WARMER OFFER
STAY 2 NIGHTS & GET 2nd NIGHT HALF PRICE !!!
Why not come & experience the beauty of Cornwalls quiet months. Enlivened by the occasional winter storm
Whether your looking to keep fit by exploring the stunning Cornish coastline or just relax & recover from Christmas & New Year, look no further than The Watermark
You could be enjoying a lovely sea view room with balcony from as little as £72.00 per night inclusive of our award winning Cornish breakfast !!
Stay any 2 nights throughout February 2017 & get the 2nd night half price
As February is the month of love, why not impress the one you love by adding a bottle of prosecco & luxury chocolates to your stay for £15.00
Offer is valid from Friday 10th February through to Sunday 26th February 2017 subject to availability
Minimum 2 night stay required. Price based on 2 adults sharing.
Contact us:
The Watermark
Bed & Breakfast
Hannafore Road
Looe
Cornwall PL13 2DE
t: 01503 262123
Online Enquiries
Quicklinks:
Home
Webcams
Rooms
Breakfast
Availability
Tariff
Things to do
How to find us
(c) Last updated 16th February 2017
Website developed by WesternWeb
