www.gardenorganic.org.uk
Skip to main content
Garden organic
Toggle navigation
Home
Growing Advice
Our Work
Support Us
Join Us
Shop
Organic growing advice
Fighting to protect the nation's biodiversity
Research & Development to support sustainable food production
Helping families communities & members grow organically & sustainably
Why Be Organic?
Your garden is your own little patch of the world to look after. Most gardens are quite small, but there are 15 million of them in the UK. If all of these gardens were cared for organically, it would create a much better environment – for our families, plants and wildlife.
Join Garden Organic
By becoming a member you can join the thousands of people in the UK and overseas who are already leading the movement for an organic and sustainable future for us all.
Join Us
Top Tips for February
Soil care: Keep off wet soils to avoid compaction. Use long boards as walkways to spread your weight.
General: Now is an excellent time to create a pond.
Herbs: Improve fertility round leafy herbaceous herbs, such as chives, with a top dressing of garden compost.
Read more
News
School growing project gets green light to continue
We are delighted to announce plans to build on the fantastic achievements of the Food Growing Schools: London project by continuing to promote food growing in London schools.
For the past three years, Garden Organic has been leading the Food Growing Schools: London partnership (funded by the Big Lottery Fund), working with the Mayor of London, Capital Growth, the Soil Association's Food For Life project, the Royal Horticultural Society (RHS), School Food Matters and Trees for Cities.
Read more
Helping out feathered friends
February is an exciting time in the garden for bird watchers.
Our feathered friends are busy nesting and mating, and now is the best time to spot them, before the trees come into leaf.
Read more
Mad about orchards?
For the past year seventeen enthusiastic volunteers from across the Three Counties (Herefordshire, Worcestershire and Gloucestershire) have been enjoying an Orchard Champions course. In return for five days free training they have been helping us to promote traditional orchards and local varieties.
Read more
Featured Person
Our Founder
Lawrence Hills, a freelance journalist and keen organic grower, founded our organisation in 1954. He was passionate about promoting the potential of the herb comfrey as a natural fertiliser and the benefits of organic growing as a whole.
Search form
SearchSearch
Members Area - Log in
Contact Us
Donate
Events & Courses
Open Gardens
Frequently Asked Questions
Local activities
News
Newsletter Sign-up
Vacancies
Coming soon...
Thyme To Be open day
at:
Ryton Organic Gardens
on:
Tuesday, 21 February 2017 - 11:00am to 3:00pm
Avon Organic Group AGM, followed by Soil Assocation talk and seed swap
at:
The Station, Silver Street, Bristol BS1 2AG, in the Dance Studio.
on:
Thursday, 23 February 2017 - 7:00pm to 9:00pm
SE Essex Seed Potato Day
at:
Growing Together Westcliff, 47 Fairfax Drive (corner of Fairfax Drive and Prittlewell Chase), Westcliff-on-Sea, SS0 9AG
on:
Saturday, 25 February 2017 - 10:00am to 2:00pm
Tweets by @gardenorganicuk
Garden organics
About us
Our charity brings together thousands of people who share a common belief - that organic growing is essential for a healthy and sustainable world.
Through campaigning, advice, community work and research, our aim is to get everyone growing ‘the organic way’.
Garden Organic, the working name of the
Henry Doubleday Research Association,
is a registered charity in England and Wales (no. 298104) and Scotland (SC046767)
More information
Follow
Site map
Home
Advice
Our Work
Support us
Join us
Cookie Policy
Contact us
Garden Organic
Ryton Gardens
Wolston Lane
Coventry
Warwickshire
United Kingdom
CV8 3LG
024 7630 3517
enquiry@gardenorganic.org.uk
