Lasa
lasa
Home
About Lasa
Social welfare law
Tech support
Contact us
Every year, Lasa’s social welfare law & tech support services help thousands of third sector, public sector & government organisations across the UK to deliver efficient, high quality services
Interested in our social welfare law work? Find out more - about our rightsnet and advicelocal websites, casework support services and training events - from our 'social welfare law' page?
Or perhaps you want to find out more about how we support and promote third sector organisations' use of technology? If so, check out our 'tech support'
page for information on our Lasatech team's AIMS software, our Connecting Care project and our ICTKnowledgebase work.
About Lasa
We'd love to hear from you if you have feedback on our services, or you'd like to discuss how we might be able to help you in your own work. You can contact us via info@lasa.org.uk
Latest Lasa news:
We've launched a range of new web tools, in relation to social care, council tax help, universal credit, personal independence payment, and the work capability assessment. Check them out via lasa.org.uk/webtools
AIMS is changing ... We're planning a whole series of changes to our AIMS contact management database software over the next 12 months. Find out more ...
Check out advicelocal.org.uk, our borough-by-borough social welfare resource for London.
Lasa is a social welfare law and tech charity
Established in 1984, we're dedicated to supporting organisations in their use of technology and the delivery of social welfare law advice to the disadvantaged communities they serve.
What we do:
We do a whole heap of stuff to help everyone from frontline third sector orgs to government departments (and everyone in-between)
to deliver efficient, high quality services.
Find out more about our social welfare law work or how we support and promote organisations' use of tech, from the links at the top of the page.
Who we work with:
We're committed to social justice and to helping organisations deliver the most effective services for the benefit of their users.
To this end we work with thousands of organisations every year, including frontline VCS orgs; local authorities; social care organisations; housing associations; solicitor firms and barristers chambers; funders; media organisations; the judiciary; government departments ... and many, many more.
What people say about us:
'It's impossible to overstate the difference rightsnet has made to my work and how it has impacted on my clients'
'rightsnet transforms welfare rights advice, it's absolutely brilliant [and] seems to get better each week'
'We've turned to Lasa for years and you've never let us down! Your knowledge and resources related to IT are invaluable'
'Basically if the Lasa tech team didn't exist I'd want someone to create it!'
'Really good training. All frontline staff need to do this'
What we're currently working on:
Our current work includes the provision of information on the latest welfare reforms via our rightsnet online subscription service and our training events; the development of a suite of web tools, including socialcareinfo, counciltaxhelp and advicelocal; and a range of advice and tech work in partnerships with AdviceUK, the Law Centres Network, Race on the Agenda, LVSC and the Women's Resource Centre.
Recognition for our work:
Lasa was shortlisted in the 'Access to justice through IT' category in the Legal Aid Practitioner's Group's 'LALY awards'; is a winner of the British Library sponsored 'Opening the World of knowledge' category in the Nominet Internet awards; won the 'technological innovation' category in the Lexis Nexis Taxation Awards; was a winner in the 'Working Together' category at the Technology4Good awards; and was shortlisted for the Charity Times 'Cross-sector partnership of the year' and the Guardian's Social Enterprise Award.
Supporters of our work:
Many thanks to those who are funding our work: the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation | the Legal Education Foundation | London Councils | City Bridge Trust | Trust for London | the Local Governmnet Association | HMRC | the Law Society Charity | the Access to Justice Foundation | the BIG Lottery Fund.
Social welfare law
Every year we help thousands of organisations across the UK to give better social welfare law advice to their clients.
Keep up to date via our twitter feed @rightsnet
Universal Credit info: check whether you can claim universal credit
Social care info: find local and national social care resources, and independent advice agencies in your area.
Council tax help: find local and national council tax resources, and independent advice agencies in your area.
More Lasa web tools
What we do:
Welfare rights news & case law - our award winning rightsnet website is the first place thousands of organisations across the UK go to stay up to speed with the latest welfare rights developments.
Other areas of social welfare law - check out our other areas of law update service, bringing you the latest debt, employment, community care and housing news and case law.
Online casework support - get peer-to-peer casework support via our online adviser discussion forums, where thousands of advisers from across the UK meet
to share their experience and expertise for the benefit of their clients.
universalcreditinfo - a new web tool designed to help people check
whether they can claim universal credit in their post code area.
pipinfo - our adviser guide to personal independence payment regulations & case law.
wcainfo - our adviser guide to the work capabaility assessment
socialcareinfo - our new web tool, linking people with social care needs with local and national social care resources and independent advice agencies in their area.
counciltaxhelp - designed to help people find details of their local council tax support scheme, national information about their rights and entitlements, and
details of independent advice organisations who can help
people get the help they need.
Advicelocal - our borough-by-borough social welfare resource for London's advice and information community
Training - suitable for new or experienced advisers, and delivered by our expert team
of trainers, we offer a rolling programme of training events including on the latest
welfare reforms.
AIMS software
- our user-friendly contact management database, helping organisations
across the UK to track client contacts and report quickly and easily to
management and funders.
Publications - including our annual benefit rates information.
Rightsjobs - advertise your advice job vacancy and connect with high quality candidates using our quick, targeted and cost effective service.
revenuebenefits - partnership work with the Low Incomes Tax Reform Group on the revenuebenefits.org.uk website.
Partnership work - Lasa is a partner in the London Councils funded project 'Stronger Organisations -
Benefiting London(ers)' which provides infrastructure support and
capacity-building for London's advice sector.
The programme enables advice
services to deal more effectively with the problems faced by Londoners,
particularly those resulting from welfare changes, in and out of work poverty,
and the overall squeeze on household incomes. This partnership project is led
by AdviceUK.
Who we work with:
Every year we provide support to thousands of organisations across the UK, including -
From
the 3rd sector - Citizens Advice
Bureaux | law centres | Turn2Us | Child Poverty Action Group |
Disability Rights UK | AgeUK | AdviceUK agencies | housing associations.
From the private sector - private practice solicitors | barristers' chambers | Ferret | Lisson Grove Benefit Programme | the BBC.
From local government - local authority welfare
rights units | the National Association of Welfare Rights Advisers | Rights Advice Scotland.
At
the national level - the House of Commons
Library | the Social Security Advisory Committee | the Tribunals Service
| the Social Security Chamber of the Upper Tribunal | the Parliamentary
and Health Service
Ombudsman | the DWP | the Department for Social Development in Northern Ireland |
the Northern Ireland
Court Service.
What people say about us:
'Without rightsnet I could not provide the current
level of help and support to my team and to our clients. It gives us the
confidence that our advice is correct and up to date [and] means we do
not have to turn clients away'
'It's impossible to overstate the difference rightsnet has made to my work and how it has impacted on my clients'
'Essential tools to keep up to date and to use as reference source, with
links to legislation etc. I ensure that all my staff see relevant news
items on a daily basis'
Read more feedback on our rightsnet website.
Supporting third sector technology
Every year our Lasatech team works with thousands of third sector organisations, funders and others across the UK to support and promote their use of tech.
Follow us on twitter @lasaICT
What we do:
Connecting Care - through our DoH-funded project we worked with not-for-profit social
care providers to support them in their use of tech to deliver their
services more effectively, and achieve better outcomes.
AIMS software
- our user-friendly contact management database, helping organisations
across the UK to track client contacts and report quickly and easily to
management and funders.
Partnership work - Lasa is a partner in the London Councils funded
project 'London for All' which helps
organisations strengthen their knowledge and skills, work more effectively and
better support their service users. This partnership project is led by London Voluntary Service Council.
Impartial technology advice and guidance - Our two-year London Councils
work is providing London’s third sector with impartial technology
advice and guidance via email, web and telephone. Contact us to find out how we can help you in making the best use of technology to support the delivery of your services.
Training & events - contact us
to find out more about how our events have brought people together to
help demystify technology and help organisations use IT to achieve their
goals.
Publications - signup for our quarterly bulletin on technology in health and social care.
Circuit riders - for more than 10 years we've championed the use of mobile technology workers across the UK who
help a caseload of small third sector organisations with their
technology needs. Contact us
to find out more about how circuit riding could help benefit your network or community.
Who we work with:
Every year, we work with and provide tech support to thousands of organisations across the UK, including -
Tech
consultancy to hundreds of VSC organisations across the UK, including
Children England, Carers UK, Liberty, the Family Welfare Association,
the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, Red Kite Learning, MLA London,
DTA.
Tech support to London's VCS orgs through our two-year
London Councils-funded partnership with Race on the Agenda, LVSC and the
Women's Resource Centre.
Work, with the Social Care Institute for Excellence and Charity Technology Trust, on the award-winning 'Get Connected' project.
Our
AIMS software, that's used by hundreds of organisations across the UK,
including local authorities, welfare rights services,
the Child Poverty Action Group, Disability Rights UK, national telephone
help lines, carers centres, Community and
Voluntary Services and small community group.
What people say about us:
'Support from the Connecting Care team at Lasa has helped us deepen our impact and have greater positive outcomes for the older people we support. We have identified technology solutions we didn't know existed, and saved huge amounts of money by making the right ICT choices for our charity.'
'The staff [who attended the show and tell] have gone back to their care settings and immediately started using technology with people needing care and support, and spreading the word with other staff.'
'We've turned to Lasa for years and you've never let us down! Your knowledge and resources related to IT are invaluable'
'Basically if the Lasa tech team didn't exist I'd want someone to
create it!'
We’d love to hear from you
Do get in touch if you have feedback on our services, or you'd like to discuss how we might be able to help you in your own work.
Your name
Your email
Your message
Please answer this anti-spam question.2+2 is equal to?
Send
If you're coming to see us
We're based @
Kinnaird House,
1 Pall Mall East,
London
SW1Y 5BP
Find us on Google maps.
If you want to speak to us
Our main switchboard is on 0207 377 2748
If you have a question for our Lasatech team
Call us on 0207 426 4473
If you want to email us
But don't want to use our contact form, you can do so via info@lasa.org.uk
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us @lasacharity ... or @rightsnet for the latest social welfare law news and policy developments; @LasaICT for the latest news, information and guidance on technology use in the third sector; and @advicelocal for updates from our borough-by-borough social welfare resource for London.
If you want to make a complaint
We don't look on complaints as unwanted. In fact, they may help us to see where our services or procedures might be improved. For more information, please download our complaints procedure.
If you want to make an online payment
The small print: Lasa is the trading name of Lasa Charity UK Limited, a registered charity in England and Wales. Charity Reg No: 800140. It is a private company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales. Company Reg. No: 1794098. Registered office: Kinnaird House, 1 Pall Mall East, London SW1Y 5BP. VAT No 524965032.
We use
cookies to compile anonymous, aggregated statistics that allow us to understand how visitors use the site.
This information helps us improve the site’s structure and functionality. You may opt to view the site without cookies by adjusting your browser's settings. © Lasa 2013
Website by MID
