Multimedia Design - Writers and designers of training materials
Menu
About
Projects
Products
Contact
Targetted communication and learning
When you need to communicate – explain, inform, motivate –
we help you find the most effective way of getting your message across.
Every communication tool that we create is carefully designed to meet the specific needs of our client's target audience.
Our team includes writers, designers, web specialists and human-factors experts.
We work in a wide range of media including text, graphics, audio, video – and of course e-learning.
Our clients include NHS Trusts, housing associations, utility companies, hospices, county councils and many smaller organisations.
Among our corporate clients are: BG Group, Carlsberg, ExxonMobil, Frito-Lay, Guinness and Reuters.
Mulitmedia Design has been creating learning and communication solutions since 1995.
Projects
Handover
Poor handover between clinicians is an international recognised issue.
The training module we devised and developed for Barnet, Enfield and Haringey Mental
Health NHS Trust introduces a clear protocol for safe and efficient handovers.
Dual Diagnosis
This training module, developed for Camdem and Islington Mental Health NHS Trust, provides clinicians with the key skills they need to optimise the care for service users living with a mental health problem complicated by alcohol or drug issues.
Developmental Conversations
The Developmental Conversations e-learning module is aimed at clinical and educational supervisors who want to maximise their skills in fostering the development of trainee doctors.
Products
Training Compliance Manager
Training Compliance Manager provides clear evidence that every member of your medical staff is safe to use any of the medical devices that they might be required to use in the course of their work.
Training Tracker
The Training Tracker e-learning system and LMS is the simplest possible way to create, deliver and then monitor and report on e-learning. It is popular with hospitals, hospices, care homes and utilities companies.
Video production
Video is the ideal medium for communicating short snappy messages that really hit home. Our team can help you maximise the impact of your video by working with you on the scripting, storyboarding, shooting, editing and distribution of your finished piece.
Contact details
Give us a call!
We'd love to hear about your learning or communication project – so please phone 01480-494515 now and ask for Graham or Anne.
Email: contact@mdsl-net.com
Tel: +44 (0)1480 494515
Tel: +44 (0)1480 494515
Email: contact@mdsl-net.com
The Multimedia Design Studio Limited, 2 New Road, St Ives, Cambridgeshire, PE27 5BG
© The Multimedia Design Studio Limited
Site built with Simple Responsive Template
