PRL Group | Promotional Merchandise
Celebrating over 25 years in Business, new website to be launched soon!
For sales, advice and inspiration please call us!
01462 896 164
SHOP
Visit our on-line branded promotional store Download our 2015 brochure
LEARN MORE
"We specialise in putting your brand and message on a huge range of marketing materials - it's what we do best!"If you need inspiration to complete your Big Idea or you just need the Big Idea; then we are the right
people for you! Our expertise in designing bespoke promotional products in addition to our in-house graphic
design department supplies you with the confidence of positive results from your investment. We have the
resources, creativity and professionalism to provide you with the right products to compliment any marketing
campaign along with an experienced Account Manager to help you every step of the way!
"After almost three decades we have built strong strategic partnerships with manufacturers across the globe allowing us to source and manufacture the right products to meet your needs. Our partners are all quality assessed to ensure we offer fair practice and a quality service - all of which combine to give your brand the competitive edge."Hayley Norman, Managing Director.
OUR ROOTS
Promotions Reliability has grown from a start-up promotions gift house in Hitchin, Hertfordshire in 1989 to a leading UK promotions and creative marketing communications company in the UK. Continually striving to improve and develop here at PRL, we have recently moved to our own specially refurbished offices in the picturesque market town of Baldock, Hertfordshire.
WHAT WE DO
We are a full service, integrated communications network. After 20 years at the sharp end of marketing communications, we’ve learnt a thing or two about getting businesses noticed and the first rule is that success is determined by results, not just appearances. We believe passionately in the power of ideas to differentiate and motivate and to change the world for the better.
WHAT WE BELIEVE
There are some things you just cannot change. Night follows day… but a courageous, bright ideas, based on sound planning, will help you make the change you want to see. Our loyalty is to our clients, but our independence stimulates an attitude and state of mind.  A freedom to challenge ourselves and our clients to go beyond the obvious.
PEAK PERFORMANCE
Peak Performance is about excelling at all times. At PRL we strive to be a peak performing organisation, so we nurture our people and guide individuals to their personal goals. Peak performers love what they do. Love doing what they do better and doing it better than anyone else. Characteristically, peak performers dream it, then they do it. And then they aim for a higher peak.
OUR DREAM
A freedom to challenge ourselves and dream up the unexpected, to go beyond the obvious.  One Team, One Dream – Nothing is Impossible. A hothouse for changing ideas that create sustainable growth for our clients.
CHANGE
It is not always the strongest that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change. We can make the change you want to see.
© 2015 PRL Group.All rights reserved.
