Peek Cambridge Website Design, Brand & Creative Marketing Agency London
Home
What we do
Our approach
Brand naming
Brand identity
Place branding
UI and UX design
Website design
Apps & mobile web
Digital strategy
Graphic design
Marketing consultancy
Our clients
See our work
Branding
Website design
Apps & mobile web
Digital strategy
Graphic design
Marketing
Insights
01223 900121
Get a quote
Offices & Telephone
About Peek Creative
Principals
Awards
Helping others
Careers
Writers & Speakers
Welcome to Peek – the brand & marketing agency
We help businesses succeed through insight and imagination.
Brand consultants
We love branding. We love naming. So, whether you are just starting out in business or have a long history behind you, your business will need a clearly defined brand and we’d love to help. Peek will help you distil the most powerful benefits of your brand into a message you can communicate effectively to your target audiences.
Find out more about brand development services from Peek
Websites and Apps
With a world that has gone mobile the potential of digital to support your business is great. Knowing how to find and exploit that potential can be complex. We can help you navigate through the mobile digital world and make the most of what it has to offer. Whether you need a cms driven responsive website or a smartphone app we can help. We are WordPress specialists and registered Apple iOS and Android developers.
Find out more about website design and App development from Peek
Marketing
We are known for our insight and imagination when it comes to marketing. Our bestselling marketing book is testimony to the fact that we can offer you great support and advice. We offer a range of marketing support services and our most popular is the marketing workshop. Come and enjoy the fresh air in our countryside studios and give your marketing a refresh. Lots of fun, bags of ideas but better still an action plan at the end of the day.
Find out more about marketing consultancy services from Peek
New Fintech Venture choose Peek
Peek Creative has developed a sophisticated new animation for two ex-Merril Lynch directors, who have unveiled a brand new Fintech solution to help clients manage their cash deposits. Insignis Asset Management sought Peek’s creative services as they tried to come up with a way to explain their […]
IELTS app to help 2.2 million candidates improve their exam results
Leading author Pauline Cullen came to Peek with an idea for a suite of apps to help support her bestselling IELTS (International English Language Testing System) books.
Behind every digital tv listing is PAWA
EBS had a difficult task for Peek as they had this ever expanding range of services underpinned by software and some clever people, but it had no name.
Peek is a creative web design, branding, digital design and marketing agency.
We have studios in Cambridge and London.
We’ll combine the latest creative channels and tools to make your project the best it can be.
With a passion to learn new things combined with our broad experience and creative ‘can-do’ attitude means we are happy, work hard and proud of what we do.
Don’t just take our word for it, have a peek at what our clients say, our portfolio of work and our lovely awards.
Finding the right team that can fully grasp your vision and turn it into a great brand identity that speaks for itself can be quite challenging. Working with Peek was one of the best things that has happened to us in our startup phase. If you are looking for experienced people who can listen to you and efficiently translate your vision into something tangible, than you're probably in the right place.George Kazarian, The Recipe Kit
Peek Creative were a pleasure to work with, nothing ever seemed too much trouble. They responded quickly and efficiently to any last minute ideas and delivered what proved to be a successful photography competition app for our Facebook site.Josh Heaton, Korec Group
Right from the start we were impressed with Peek's efficient and professional manner - an approach that not only inspired confidence but generated the results we were looking for. Peek has consistently done an excellent job of understanding what our company is about and powerfully delivering our message with clarity and results. We would not hesitate to recommend the services of Peek Creative to other companies.Gillian Green & Christine Thornton-Bowen, Business women of the year 2009, founders and directors of City Care Services Ltd
Working with Peek Creative has been a complete pleasure. The team has been professional and extremely thorough in developing an app for the HorseyHotties brand. Within one week of launching we have seen downloads in 20 countries as well as widespread coverage in the equestrian press. I look forward to a continued successful working relationship with Peek Creative and highly recommend their services.Ginny Rose, Managing Director, HorseyHotties Ltd
I wanted to thank you for all your help with our recent re-branding. We’ve now got a slick new corporate identity which we can all be proud of, and which really does our company justice. I was particularly impressed how much time and effort you took in understanding our business and the qualities that the new identity needed to convey. The finished product is both a work of art and a stroke of genius.James Stevenson, Virtual Aviation
Latest news
New Fintech Venture choose Peek
IELTS app to help 2.2 million candidates improve their exam results
Behind every digital tv listing is PAWA
Join the public law superstars
Working with the best IB School in the World
Find out more about...
Apps & mobile web
Branding
Digital strategy
Graphic design
Marketing
Website design
See our work
Branding projects
Digital strategy stories
Graphic design portfolio
Marketing case studies
Some apps we've made
Website design portfolio
Contact us
Phone: Peek Creative Ltd Cambridge +44 (0)1223 900121London +44 (0)20 7060 5121
Email: askus@haveapeekatthis.com
Search our site
facebook
Facebook
twitter
Twitter
linked in
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Vimeo
Google
Copyright 2002-2017 Peek Creative Ltd | Cookies & Privacy | RAR Recommended Agency
