B2B Telemarketing Cambridge UK - Business Dev Services For Companies
Navigation
Prospect Research
B2B Telemarketing Company
Home
MainMenuHome
Services
Telemarketing
Lead Generation
Business Development
Market Research
Approach
Experience
Education and Skills, Employer Engagement
FE Colleges
Universities
Councils and Government Funded Organisations
Training Providers
Government and Public Sector
IT and Technology
Construction and Facilities Management
Financial Services and Legal
Innovative Companies
Business Services
Logistics and Manufacturing
Companies Selling into the UK
Sub-Contracting and Partnerships
About Us
Meet the team
Our Story
Values & Culture
Office Tour
About Cambridge
Social
Memberships
Charity & Community
Staff Awards
Careers
Careers
News
Blog
Contact Us
Return to Content
You are here: Home
Looking for qualified UK business opportunities? We can help with our Cambridge based B2B Telemarketing & Business Development Services
Welcome to Prospect Research. We are B2B telemarketing and business development specialists based in Cambridge offering a full service, helping UK companies to grow. Our services not only include business development and B2B Telemarketing, but lead generation, appointment setting, market research, data cleansing, telesales and much more.
Our clients trust us to deliver results because we work harder and smarter to build relationships that develop their business. Since 2004 these relationships have helped 100’s of UK companies win £1,000,000’s of new business and develop in new markets. Not only do we help UK companies but those looking to sell to the UK too.
We have a wide range of experience in an array of industries from Education and Training Providers to IT and Technology. We are also one of Barbour ABI’s chosen telemarketing partners allowing us to help UK companies in the construction industry.
What are you looking to do?
Generate more sales leads
Gain insights into your market
What sector do you work in?
Education and Skills
Government and Public Sector
IT and Technology
Construction and Facilities Management
Financial Services and Legal
Innovative Products and Solutions
Business Services
Logistics and Manufacturing
Companies selling into the UK
Some of our clients…
Read more about our experience…
“We’ve worked with Prospect Research for one year now and during that time they have delivered a significant number of leads, worked closely with us and integrated well into our sales processes. They also made the effort to get to know us and really understand our business and customers’ challenges so that they can, working in our name, have meaningful conversations with prospects – delivering a strong first impression to prospects and a good conversion rate.”
Data Interchange – EDI solutions
“Prospect Research have been a pleasure to work with, and very flexible in their approach.  Their grasp of our product, and why companies would be interested in the apps, is evident from the great opportunities that they have found for us.”
Make it Digital – Web and mobile applications
“I have been very impressed by Prospect Research’s ability to acquire often difficult to find information and by the detail, accuracy and ease of use of the completed database they delivered.”
Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency
Read more client testimonials…
How can we help?
To find out more about how our Cambridge based B2B telemarketing and business development experience and services can help your business…
Contact us on 0844 539 9712 or by email.
Latest
Popular Tags
Moving on up:
Promotion for Kathryn to support Barbour ABI sales leads
November 14, 2016
And the winner of the October wowser is…
November 8, 2016
Introducing our first Apprentice, Amy
November 8, 2016
Star Radio Interview with Cambridge Marketing College
February 16, 2015
Introduce potential prospects to your services with an event
May 18, 2015
4 Tips to Achieve Maximum ROI from Direct Mail
May 21, 2015
10th anniversary
Appointment Setting
Apprenticeships
B2B Marketing
Barbour ABI
Beth Walthew
Business Data
Business Development
Cambridge News
Cambridgeshire Chambers of Commerce
Charity
Charity Quiz
Charity work
Chris Walthew
Customer Surveys
Data Cleansing
EACH
East Anglia’s Children’s Hospices
Education and Skills
Education Market Research
Emmanuel College
Employer Engagement
FE Colleges
HEIST
Heist Awards
Integrated Marketing
Jan Woodruff
Lead generation
Marketing
Market Research
Movember
outsourced telemarketing company
Recruitment Cambridge
sales
Sales Jobs Cambridge
Staff Awards
Team news
Telemarketing
telemarketing campaign
Telemarketing Jobs Cambridge
telemarketing tips
Telesales
Telesales Jobs Cambridge
Work Experience
Wowser
Tweets by @prosres
Subscribe / Connect
Follow Prospect Research...
ServicesBusiness Development
Telemarketing
Lead Generation
Appointment Setting
Market Research
Customer Satisfaction Surveys
Instagram
ExperienceEducation and Skills, Employer Engagement
Government and Public Sector
IT and Technology
Construction and Facilities Management
Financial Services and Legal
Innovative Products and Services
Business Services
Logistics and Manufacturing
Selling into the UK
Sub-Contracting and Partnerships
RegionsTelemarketing Peterborough
Market Research Peterborough
Telemarketing Essex
Market Research Essex
Telesales Essex
Telemarketing Colchester
Telemarketing Hertfordshire
Market Research Hertfordshire
Market Research Watford
Telesales Watford
Market Research St Albans
Telemarketing, Market Research & Telesales Luton
Telemarketing Bedford
Telemarketing, Market Research & Telesales Northampton
Telemarketing, Market Research & Business Development Boston
Lead Generation Norfolk
Market Research Norfolk
Telemarketing, Telesales & Market Research Norwich
More pagesTerms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Contact Us
Sitemap
Gallery
Facebook
Twitter
© 2016 Prospect Research Ltd, The Old Maltings, 135 Ditton Walk, Cambridge CB5 8PY
Registered in England and Wales Company No. 4925350
Top
