Home - Sage Healthcare
GLOBAL HEALTHCARE TRANSACTIONS AND BUSINESS STRATEGY
Downloads
Contact Us
ABOUT USSERVICESTHE SAGE TEAMCLIENTSNEWS & PRESSCASE STUDIESSUCCESSES
The Sage Group is an organization of experienced and successful executives who are committed to the service of the very vital and dynamic health case industry and its investors
MORE ABOUT US
OUR SERVICES
M&A - Buy and Sell Side
The principals of The Sage Group have assisted many management teams and have consummated many transactions -- large and small. The Sage Group can help your company determine the appropriate strategy, select the relevant fields, screen the candidates, value, negotiate and consummate. Read More ...
Licensing
Increasingly, the corporate partnership or alliance has become the strategic linchpin for the healthcare industries. The costly and complex process of new product discovery and development requires the application of many diverse disciplines and technologies which often reside in multiple organizations. Read More ...
Business Development
Sages Principals have many years of business experience, working creatively for small, medium and large companies.
Our strong global network and individucal corporate experience in the pharma, biotech and med tech industries enables us to offer our clients both strategic and forward looking advice as well as hands-on execution strategies. Read More ...
Strategic Analysis
The Sage Market Assessment Service is a strategic, analytical serviced designed to allow companies, particularly small to medium size companies, to quickly gain information about customers and markets. Read More ...
Sage Regulatory Consultancy
Read More ...
Sage BioExecutive Recruitment
Sage BioExecutive is a sister company to The Sage Group and offers a senior level and highly focused recruitment service for global industries in the healthcare and life sciences sector. Read More ...
OUR TEAM
JUMP TO
ABOUT USSERVICESTHE SAGE TEAMCLIENTSNEWS & PRESSCASE STUDIESSUCCESSES
Contact Us
Downloads
Sage Represents Mateon Th...
Sage is representing Mateon Therapeutics, a US-based biopharma company focusing on Vascular Disrupting Agents (VDAs) for orphan on... Read entire article
Opportunity to License or...
Escend Therapeutics (www.escendpharma.com) is based in San Diego, CA, and develops small molecule therapeutics for oncology orphan... Read entire article
Sage Offers an EU Licensi...
Cancers of the liver remain a major unmet medical need for the ~1.2 million patients diagnosed annually with primary or metastatic... Read entire article
NEWSLETTER
© The Sage Group
2017
|
Privacy Policy
|
Site by YouSoft
