SIMPOL Programming Language Home Page
Contact us at: sales@superbase.com
Menu
Home
News
Products
SIMPOL Professional
SIMPOL Multi-User Database Engine
Shop
Services
Forums
Developers
Blog
Contact
About
Home
Superbase NG and SIMPOL enable you to build computer applications faster and easier than ever before
Superbase NG 2.06 is now available!
Everyone at Superbase Software Limited are very pleased to announce the release of Superbase NG 2.06, an update to our recent Superbase NG 2.05 release. More…
Regular blog posts in the developer’s section.
We will soon be posting regularly to the development blog about various things we are working on, see the Development Blog for details.
Superbase NG is Cross-Platform
Develop your application once — run it on Linux or Windows (with more platforms coming).
Experienced Software Developer?
Superbase NG 2.06 — available now — gives you the tools to be more productive than you could imagine. Create protoypes so blindingly fast that you will surprise yourself. Then quickly build upon your initial design to create very large systems built on a cross-platform database. Superbase NG and the SIMPOL programming language give you the tools to build your Professional Services projects easier, faster, and more profitably!
Superbase NG Can Do It!
Superbase NG can be used to create applications for your laptop, desktops, local network, wide area networks and your web server. Superbase NG was used to develop the web shop and registration system used on this site.
Additional InformationPrivacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Press Info
Sitemap
Register – Log In
Developers CornerDevelopment Roadmap
Tips and Tricks
IDE Screenshots
Downloads
Migrating from Superbase
Superbase NG Documentation
Frequently Asked Questions
Development Blog
Register – Log In
Forums
Free WordPress Theme
|
AccessPress Lite
Copyright © 2017
Superbase Software Limited
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkRead more
