Buy small size shoes for women in the UK and Europe
| @Small-shoes.co.uk...
Small-shoes.co.uk
stylish shoes for smaller feet
Home
| SHOP ONLINE | SIZES | RETURNS | About Us | Testimonials | Privacy | HELP
Small-shoes
- where you can buy women's shoes
in sizes 1 to 3
What our
customers say...
Testimonials
Newsletter
Subscribe to our mailing list
[more info]
(UK and Europe)
(We also ship to the USA and Internationally everyday)
How to use this Online Shop
Hi there, welcome to small-shoes.co.uk. Here's how our shop works:
If you are sure of your shoe size because you have ordered from us before, just add the shoes to the shopping cart, go to the checkout, and pay using secure online ordering - simple!
If you haven't ordered from this website before, we really recommend that you check your size with us first - to do that, you can easily measure your own feet, send us the measurements, and we'll advise you about what size to order.
How to Pay
Here's where you can get the petite sizes of ladies shoes the High Street shops don't seem to sell any more - Quality, stylish small shoes, mostly Italian and Spanish small size equivalents, for sale here, to women with small feet in the UK, Europe and the World !
SPECIAL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED BY UP TO 70% !
Marilyn £46.25
(50% OFF)
Kirstin
£65.45
(30% OFF)
Greta £25.35
(70% OFF)
We know
you want:
really good service and good quality
beautifully-made, super value and real leather Italian and Spanish styled shoes - even in the smallest sizes
You have tried cheap plastic and leather shoes and know that style, comfort and quality are worth a little extra. We try to get the best quality shoes, and keep the price down as low as we possibly can. [more on this...]
We bring you the small sizes of women's footwear that you want - UK size 1, size 2 and size 3, or continental 32 to 35, including half sizes - in this season's stylish courts, slingbacks, sandals, high heels, medium heels, low heels, black leather courts, black leather sandals, black leather slingbacks, brown leather courts, brown leather slingbacks, brown leather sandals, peep toe, black leather peep toes, boots, leather boots, black leather boots, brown leather boots, stillettos, stilettos, wedges, mocassins, moccasins, slippers, high strappy sandals, toe-posts, mules, high heels, kitten heels, flatties - and boots! We keep finding new styles for you, so you will find women's shoes in small sizes for all occasions - for work, party, wedding, shopping, casual, beach - whatever!
If you have any questions, first look on the HELP page - if you don't find the answer there, you can contact us .
Chris & Janet Granger, founders of Small-shoes.co.uk, would like to thank all our customers who found the small shoes they were looking for here since we started in 2003. We have now transferred the complete ownership of Small-shoes.co.uk to pretty-small-shoes.com and we feel this will ensure that you can continue to find just what you want for years to come!
Small-shoes.co.uk is now owned and operated by pretty-small-shoes.com which are both part of the Kandy Collective LLP group.
Unit 6, St Albans House, 26, St Albans Lane, London, NW11 7QE Tel: 0208 455 2548 e-mail
