Software Acumen - We build communities to help technology professionals grow
Software Acumen
We build communities to help technology professionals grow
Software Acumen
About
conferences, software acumen, Uncategorized
Slack top tips for #eventprofs!
January 11, 2017 Jacqui Davidson
Many of our participants’ unexpected favourite takeaway from our events is the added bonus of networking. They arrive often alone and leave with many new contacts and friends who may shape the way they work in the future. Making pre and post event networking easier for our participants is something we, as organisers, are always …Continue reading »
Uncategorized
UX can be applied to events, too
August 25, 2016 Mark Dalgarno
If you’re running an event, your users – the participants (including sponsors, speakers and press) – and their needs should be at the forefront of your mind. Seeing your event through their eyes – when you’re planning it, when you’re running it and afterwards when you’re measuring how successful it was – is important. That’s …Continue reading »
conferences, software acumen
Welcoming your participants – first impressions count!
August 8, 2016 Jacqui Davidson
You know the saying: you can tell in the first 2 minutes if you’re going to get on with someone. Well, I think people make a similar decision at events – are they going to have a great experience, or not? The welcome a participant gets at an event can set the tone for their …Continue reading »
conference experience, user experience
Agile, conferences, software acumen
Running great events: how to prepare
July 21, 2016 Mark Dalgarno
At Software Acumen, we divide the timeline of an event into before, during and after stages. Today I’ll talk about everything that happens before an event – and if you want your event to be successful, preparation is important. You’ll need to think about things like: goals for the event participants and their needs speakers …Continue reading »
Agile, Agile Manchester, software acumen
Innovative. Bold. Unique! How Auto Trader’s new office supports agile working
February 29, 2016 Sarah Dodd
Auto Trader first adopted agile ways of working in 2008. The following year it launched its mobile website, developing iPad and Android apps a couple of years after that. By 2013, the final edition of its printed magazine was published, and Auto Trader became a fully digital business. It’s now the biggest motoring digital marketplace …Continue reading »
123Next »
Some of our events
Track on Lanyrd
© 2013-2015 Software Acumen.
Software Acumen Limited | Registered in Cardiff
Registration No. 5210967 | VAT No. 896 7958 26
+44 (0)1223 900107
@SWAcumen
info@software-acumen.com
Top
