IT Experts for Business - IT Support, Cloud, Cyber Security
info@softwerx.com
+44 (0) 1223 834 333
Customer Login
Back
Our Services
IT Support Services
Essential IT Support Services Managed IT Support Services Cyber Security Support Services
Technical Services
Cloud Services Infrastructure Upgrade Office 365
Consultancy Services
Business Transformation Cyber Security Consultancy Microsoft Licensing
Partner Solutions
Microsoft Solutions
Microsoft Office 365 Skype for Business Microsoft Azure Enterprise Mobility plus Security Software Asset Management
Cyber Security
Cyber Essentials (Plus) SecurEnvoy Mimecast Webroot Databarracks Darktrace MobileIron Zscaler
Client Solutions
Small & Medium Businesses (<250 Employees)
Large Enterprise Businesses (>250 Employees)
About
Why Softwerx
Our History
Our Team
Careers
Insights
News
Blog
Case Studies
Resources
Contact
Transform the way you work Utilise the Cloud
Based in Cambridge and London, we use technology to modernise businesses throughout the UK. Let us explain in plain English how our approach to IT will help you and your business.
Arrange a FREE call back
or call 01223 834333
Our
Services
Softwerx offers wide range of Support, Technical and Consultancy Services around our core business offerings – the Microsoft Cloud and Productivity stack – and Cyber Security. As an IT Partner we can act as your Virtual IT Department, in part or totality and provide a complete Managed IT Service from our UK Service Desk and Network Operating Centre in Cambridge.  We can advise, design and deploy any manner of IT infrastructure project utilising our team of extensively experienced and qualified Technology Consultants.
View Our Services
Partner
Solutions
Softwerx partners with Industry market-leaders such as Microsoft to offer a range of technology solutions offering that can provide a distinct and competitive business advantage. We subscribe to and use everything that we sell within our own organisation. We work at a corporate level with a our Vendors, generally as an elite Partner and offering our clients extensive technical knowledge and support around the solutions we recommend.
View Microsoft Solutions
Cyber
Security
Cyber Security is not an afterthought or add-on service for Softwerx. Cyber Security is a core business activity. We recognise – that regardless of where your IT systems are located or how they are configured – they will be susceptible to attack. We have a team of dedicated IT Security Consultants that are focused entirely on understanding, testing and recommending the best solutions Cyber Security solutions the industry has to offer.
View Cyber Security
Some of our clients
Softwerx helped George Hay Chartered Accountants move to the Cloud and Save 30% on their IT Costs.
"Naturally, Softwerx was our first port of call. They designed the solution, sourced the supplier and made it an easy transition to the Cloud for us."
Richard Dilley, Partner George Hay Chartered Accountants
Want to move to the Cloud - Find out how our Cloud solutions can improve your business More about Cloud Services
Contact our team of friendly experts today and find IT Solutions that work for your business Get in Touch
Twitter Feed Tweets by @SoftwerxLtd
Latest News
Softwerx are finalists in Business Excellence Awards
Softwerx IT solutions providers are a finalist in this years’ Cambridge News & Media Business Excellence Awards in association with Barclays.
Keep Reading
Stay connected
Our Services
IT Support Services
Technical Services
Consultancy Services
About Us
Why Softwerx?
Our History
Our Team
Careers
Blog
Contact Us
Case Studies
CIF: Code of Practice
Terms and Conditions
Copyright © 2017 Softwerx. All Rights Reserved. The Softwerx.com brand and logo are property of Softwerx.
