Stagecoach Group
Skip to main content
BUS AND COACH SERVICES IN THE UK
For tickets, timetables and enquiries, visit our companies
Greener Journeys
Carbon Calculator
TRAIN AND TRAM SERVICES IN THE UKFor tickets, timetables and enquiries, visit our companies
Greener Journeys
Carbon Calculator
BUS, COACH AND SIGHTSEEING SERVICES IN NORTH AMERICA For tickets, timetables and enquiries, visit our companies
Greener Journeys
Carbon Calculator
HomeAboutSustainabilityInvestorsMediaCareers
Driving sustainable growth
We are a leading quality public transport provider in the UK, mainland Europe and North America. Around 4 million customers a day trust our greener, smarter and better value bus and rail services - and we are continuing to grow.
Transport innovation
New ideas and new ways of delivering transport are what set us apart from our competitors. Our focus on innovation is helping make buses and trains more efficient, easier to use and more attractive to customers.
Putting customers first
Without our customers we have no business. Our focus is on safe, high-quality, good value and accessible travel. We have some of the highest customer satisfaction rates in our sector and engage with our passengers to improve further.
Effective management teams
Our managers at senior and local level are respected for their experience and delivering results. We give our companies the power and flexibility to run their businesses locally to meet the needs of local communities.
Investing in our People
Our business is built on our diverse, highly trained team of 39,000 people. We are investing in their skills and talent to better serve our customers.
A trusted partner
We have a successful track-record of working in partnership with government, transport authorities, local communities, and our suppliers on initiatives such as smartcard technology to make transport better.
Protecting our planet
We have taken action to improve energy efficiency, increase recycling and conserve water. Our strategy has cut the carbon impact of our business by more than 30% in just five years.
Supporting communities and the economy
We employ 39,000 people and support thousands more jobs through the supply chain. Our success helps fund important public services - and we also invest part of our profits in good causes and community projects.
STAGECOACHINTERACTIVETIMELINE
Better transport since 1980.
SEE THE TIMELINE
NEWS
16 Feb 2017Stagecoach backs Perth's UK City of Culture bid
15 Feb 2017Virtual station: Commuters get a glimpse of the new Waterloo station – before it’s even built
14 Feb 2017Customer satisfaction boost for Stagecoach rail companies
10 Feb 2017East Midlands Trains named as one of the UK’s top employers
09 Feb 2017Stagecoach weekly bus travel nearly 10% cheaper than UK average
VIEW ALL NEWS
STAGECOACH INFOGRAPHIC
Nominate your champion
Help us find your Stagecoach stars
FIND OUT MORE
SMARTER
TRAVEL
FIND OUT
MORE
SHARED RESPONSIBILITY, SHARED FUTURE
We want to grow sustainably
FIND OUT MORE
INVESTORS
Shareholder Services
Investor Factsheet
News & Events
OUR VALUES
Find out about how we manage our business Code of Conduct
ABOUT US
Speaking Up policy
Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Forward-looking Statements
Alert Service
Site Map
Disclaimer
Privacy and Cookies
U.S. Rule 12g3-2(b)
Disability Access
RSS
Print
Email
ShareDiggTwitterFacebookLinkedInGoogleReddit
Stagecoach Group plc. Registered Office: 10 Dunkeld Road, Perth PH1 5TW, Scotland, Registered in Scotland. Registered Number: 100764
