Management Consultancy | Norwich, Norfolk | US2U Consulting - Home
Management Consultancy | Norwich, Norfolk | US2U Consulting
01603 716852
info@us2uconsulting.com
Contact Us
HomeAbout UsOur ServicesOur PeopleNews & EventsTestimonialsPress
Notice
Welcome to US2U Consulting
US2U Consulting is a forward thinking Management Consultancy offering key solutions which make for better business practice and management in any organisation.
Our successful growth has been built on the ability of our Consultants to achieve results, and the reputation this has created with our clients. In fact we guarantee to make a positive difference.
Click and explore our jigsaw to
discover if we are your missing piece...
Design & Implementation of Performance Management Systems
Customer & Client Relationships
People Development & Training
Selection Assessment, Career Development Assessment &PersonalDevelopmentPlanning
Integrated Solutions
Managing Culture Change
1:1 Coaching & Mentoring Change
Management Investigation to Tackle Specific People & Process Issues
Design & Implementation of Performance Management Systems
Would you like to review an existing performance management / appraisal scheme which has become tired and ineffective?
Would you like to create a performance management/appraisal system which motivates and focuses your team members to deliver against agreed objectives?
Would you like your team members to receive feedback on a 360 degree or upward feedback basis to assist their ongoing development?
Would you like to have a tailored competency framework to encourage your staff to use behaviours appropriate to your organisation and its brand values?
Would you like to ensure that your managers have the skills and capabilities to use the performance management/appraisal system effectively?
Would you like to ensure that your team members understand their role in effective performance management/appraisal?
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
Customer & Client Relationships
Are you planning to review the way that you manage the relationship selling process within your organisation?
Are you considering how you present your sales proposition to your customers and clients?
How are you presenting your products and services to encourage people to buy? Are you presenting your features and benefits effectively?
What are your team member's skills and capabilities around influencing different types of people, handling objections, negotiating, identifying opportunities to up sell to existing clients and closing deals?
How are your team members managing their time, their territories and using customer relationship management techniques to exploit opportunities?
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
People Development & Training
Would you value a tailor made approach to people development where case studies, exercises and other activities are focused around your organisations language, plans and goals?
Would you like a programme, or series of programmes for your team where we work with you to agree the aim, objectives, approach and success criteria to ensure effective delivery?
Would you like your programme to be high impact and delivered in an inspirational, memorable style?
Would you like high quality programme materials, tailored to your requirements, to support the learning process?
Would you appreciate a flexible approach around your organisational needs and constraints?
Encouraging diversity
Would you enjoy building a strong relationship of mutual trust with a dedicated Consultant who understands your needs and preferences?
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
Selection Assessment, Career Development Assessment & Personal Development Planning
Would you like to objectively identify key people within your business who can help you meet your growth plans?
Would you like to manage your top talent effectively, to enable you to understand the potential, aspirations and development needs for your key individuals? This will enable you to provide focused coaching, targeted feedback and assist with organisational planning to meet future needs. We will tailor an approach including options such as aptitude testing, structured interviewing, personality assessment and personal development planning.
Would you like to optimise your selection methods through structured interviews, ability testing, personality profiling, candidate exercises or assessment centres?
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
Integrated Solutions
As we work with you to achieve positive results, we ensure that various initiatives appear linked and relevant to the organisation's plans and goals...
US2U Consulting ~ Achieving Success Together
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
Managing Culture Change
Would you like to audit your current culture, identifying what is positive along with opportunities for organisational development?
Would you like to review the way that you define change, set a clear vision and lead, motivate and inspire your team?
Would you like to identify opportunities to gain involvement from your workforce, to enable you to create positive culture change? Your focus may be achieving greater empowerment, a greater understanding of diversity, enabling a more creative approach to problem solving or any other key priority identified by your business plan.
Would you like to review your policies and processes from induction onwards?
Would you like to review how latest legislation impacts on your policies and processes?
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
1:1 Coaching/Mentoring
Would you like to take the opportunity to enable one or more of your valued team members to develop their skills and capabilities, gaining the benefit of the experience from one of our MBA qualified Consultants?
This can be as a stand alone initiative or can be linked to an ongoing Management Development Programme.
Popular areas for coaching and mentoring include managing change, leadership development, getting the best from your time, influencing and assertiveness.
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
Management Investigation to Tackle Specific People & Process Issues
Do you have an area of your organisation that you would like to improve?
Would you like to improve efficiency or effectiveness, or take the opportunity to raise standards dismissing mediocrity?
Would you like to review and improve core processes, role specifications, relationships between departments and/or suppliers with a view to making a positive impact?
Would you like an objective perspective of the current situation, achievable objectives for change and practical recommendations for improvement?
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
Our Services
US2U Consulting offer a wide range of Consultancy services tailor made to your exact requirements.
Feel free to click our jigsaw of services on the left for a better understanding of how we could work, and achieve success, together.
Contact Us to see how we could fit into your plans...
