Welcome!
Home Page
Job Zone
Employers Index A-Z
Latest Vacancies
Featured Vacancies
Retail Jobs
Healthcare Jobs
Office & Specialist Jobs
Something Different
Employment Agencies
In The Media
Useful Info
Claims News
Membership
Join Us
Contact another Member
Charity News
Questions
Love Woolies
Image Galleries
Woolworths Museum
Crunch Time
Counting the cost
Did you lose your job when Woolworths collapsed?
BBC Television is looking for stories from people made redundant when Woolies went into Administration to feature in a proposed documentary looking at how ex-staff have fared during the recession.
They would like to hear from anyone who worked for the chain who has an interesting story to tell. Whether you were a full or part-time Sales Assistant or Store Manager, worked in a DC or the Supply Chain, or were part of one of the support teams like HR or Finance in London or Castleton, or even a Director, your experiences will help build the picture. With your help the BBC plans to explore the effects of the recession - both positive and negative - through the eyes of group of ex-Woolies people, drawn from right across the UK.
Assistant Producer Eamonn Walsh says "At this stage we’re not looking to commit anyone to be filmed. I'd love to receive a few lines by email detailing your Woolworths’ history, what happened to you in the immediate aftermath of the collapse and what has happened since – for good or bad.
Please
include a phone number and say when would be a good time to have a chat. All information will of course be treated in the strictest confidence. So if you have an interesting story to tell about your 'life after Woolies' journey please drop me a line, with ‘Woolworths’ in the subject line."
Protective Award
A Tribunal ruled that employees dismissed without notice after Woolworths went into Administration but before 27 December 2008, who had previously
been excluded, should receive the Protective Award. The Insolvency Service has written to all of those affected and has arranged payment to those who answered.
USDAW's appeal on behalf of employees who worked in the small stores, who were also excluded from the award, is scheduled for a hearing this month, February 2013. We believe no store should be too small in a big society, and everyone should be treated the same.
The wonder, blunder and plunder
The on-line Woolworths Museum has a new look. It's faster to search, has new multimedia content and is the perfect way to lose yourself in nostalgia and celebrate happier times.
Why not take a look?
In the UK Woolworths and Ladybird are brands of Shop Direct Group. All trademarks are acknowledged.
WoolworthsReunited.com is
© Copyright 2012, 3D and 6D Pictures Ltd., and is published by WWW Group Ltd.
