Digital Marketing Agency | Cambridge | East Anglia
08450 740068
Toggle navigation
Digital Marketing
Digital Marketing ServicesSearch Engine OptimisationPay Per Click Management (PPC)Email MarketingContent MarketingSocial Media MarketingOutsourced Digital Marketing
Ecommerce
Ecommerce SolutionsEcommerce IntegrationsOn-site SearchPCI Compliance
Web Design
Web DesignWeb Development
Our Work
Blog
About Us
Our StoryTestimonialsVacancies
Contact Us
A digital marketing agencyDriven by Results
Backed by Experience
View Our Work
We Understand Business
and the role of digital marketing in delivering business strategy.
We Deliver Results
by taking an innovative, integrated, coherent approach to web design, development, and digital marketing.
We Go the Extra Mile
to satisfy our customers by delivering results that meet or exceed client expectations.
We understand our clients' businesses
118%
Online Sales Increase
responsive
28%
Sales Increase YOY
responsive
36%
Online Sales Increase YOY
responsive
115%
Conversion Rate Increase
responsive
We deliver results for our clients
Specialists in the manufacturing and supply of electrostatic discharge ESD protection products
0%
Revenue increase
view case study
The largest trade-only furniture & giftware supplier in the UK
0%
Online Sales Increase
view case study
Award-winning software for corporate & education sectors
0%
PPC conversion increase
view case study
What our clients say
"Upon the new site going live we saw an instant significant increase in conversion rates. Site traffic also continues to consistently increase month on month. Customers love our web store and regularly compliment us on both the look and functionality of the site.
"We have a great working relationship with Xanthos. The combination of 'can do' attitude, technical expertise, and their understanding of the commercial environment makes for great development and support."
Gareth Haines
Normans
MD
What our clients say
“The launch of the Woolies new website marks a change in our online approach with ecommerce now a key part of our sales strategy.
"The team at Xanthos has done an incredible job enabling us to provide new content and features which help us to deliver an even greater experience for our customers. The increase in conversions will make a significant improvement to our online sales.”
Duncan Allen
Woolies
Co-Director
What our clients say
"We have built our business on the back of our ecommerce sites.
"We could not have achieved this without the ecommerce and digital marketing expertise of Xanthos."
Alan Calder
IT Governance Ltd
CEO
Now Let Us Go the Extra Mile for You
We are here to help your business grow
Get in touch to find out more about how our digital marketing and web development services can help expand your online presence and increase your sales.
The latest from our blogs
https://www.e-xanthos.co.uk/blog/googles-mobile-first-indexing-seo/
What Google’s Mobile-First Indexing Means for Your SEO
As Google finds most people are now searching on mobile devices, Google is now altering the ranking systems to boost the rankings of relevant content for users on mobile devices.
https://www.e-xanthos.co.uk/blog/dark-social-need-know-digital-marketing/
Dark Social: What You Need to Know for Digital Marketing
“Dark social” may sound sinister, but it’s used to describe sharing on social media or messaging platforms that provides traffic to your site that cannot be accurately tracked with analytics.
Stay on-top of the latest digital marketing news
Subscribe to our free monthly newsletter to get the latest digital news, tips, and guides sent straight to your inbox.
Digital Marketing
Digital Marketing Services
Search Engine Optimisation
Pay Per Click Management (PPC)
Email Marketing
Content Marketing
Social Media Marketing
Outsourced Digital Marketing
Ecommerce
Ecommerce Solutions
Ecommerce Integrations
On-site Search
PCI Compliance
Web Design
Web Design
Web Development
Our Work
Blog
Contact Us
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Web Hosting Terms
Sitemap
We care more…
© 2007 - 2016 XANTHOS LIMITED
Unit 2 Clive Court . Bartholomew's Walk . Cambridgeshire Business Park . Cambridgeshire . Ely . CB7 4EA
Registered in England No: 0­4457299 . VAT No: 799566541
Powered by Kentico CMS
