Cambridge Accommodation - Serviced Apartments In Cambridge - Your Space Apartments
Home
Apartments
Cambridge
Types
Studio
1 bed
2 bed
3 bed
List Apartments
Locations
Byron House
Cambridge Place
Eden House
Flamsteed Close
Manor House
Market Rise
Nelson Court
The Hamiltons
Services
Availability/Booking
Prices
Cambridge
Terms/Conditions
Contact Us
For Guests
Cambridge
Quick quote
Arrival:
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2017 2018
Departure
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2017 2018
Bedrooms:Studio1 bedroom2 bedroom3 bedroom
Grade:LeisureBusinessExecutive
City:CambridgeLondon
Our Locations
In 2003 we first opened up in Cambridge with 3 apartments.  We now have 80 apartments in 8 central locations but still offer the personal, friendly service that we set out with.
Each location has been individually styled with comfort at the top of our mind.  We believe we offer the best equipped kitchens and last year we upgraded all our beds to Hypnos beds, who have a royal charter to supply the Queen, no less!  We made this investment because we believe we are in the business of offering a "good nights sleep".  Feedback from our guests suggests we are getting something right.
To see our apartments in Cambridge CLICK HERE
Follow @yourspaceapts
Find us on Facebook!
Find us on TripAdvisor
Get Access to exlusive offers and discounts just leave your name and email address below.
Name
Email
Get Access
Guest Book
We place a Departure Feedback Card in every apartment just prior to a guest leaving to encourage them to let us know about their experience.  Many take the opportunity to make useful comments and very often these are positive.  For example:
"Bed particularly comfortable - I came with a backache and left without backache! Most unusual to have such a good bed during a holiday stay."
To see our Guest Book for each of our locations please follow the links below:
Byron House
Cambridge Place
The Hamiltons
Manor House
Market Rise
Nelson Court
YOUR SPACE SERVICED APARTMENTS, Cambridge UK
The smart alternative to hotels in Cambridge
Enlarge video
Your Space Apartments offers luxury serviced, self catering apartments in Cambridge's city centre to visiting business and leisure travellers. Why choose a hotel when our apartments offer you 3-5 times the space of a hotel room, giving you total freedom to work, entertain, cook, sleep and relax as you like.
Why stay in a Your Space serviced apartment?
Watch our video, where some of our satisfied guests explain why.
Location
We offer a choice of 8 different and fabulously appointed locations in Cambridge. In early 2016 we added two new locations for you to choose from - Nelson Court and Flamsteed Close.  Nelson Court to the north of the city centre and Flamsteed to the south near the station both are within a short walk, or bus ride, of the historic centre.  Furnished with style, including our new Hypnos beds (fit for the Queen!), these beautiful apartments are ideal for relaxing, working and exploring.
All our current apartments in Cambridge are within walking distance of the historic centre as well as having easy access to the Cambridge Science Park, Business Park, A14 and the M11.  For summary details on our eight locations please click on links in the left hand column.  Alternatively, if you require a specific number of bedrooms, please use the APARTMENTS menu option at the top.
Facilities
Each serviced apartment offers free broadband, a fully equipped kitchen, spacious bedrooms, contemporary bathrooms and more, all within a relaxing and elegant environment. If you have special requirements we are happy to help you identify the best apartment to suit your needs or please refer to our access table to view the features of each location.
Awards, Arrival Video and New Rates!
Your Space were delighted to be the proud recipients of the FlipKey (part of Trip Advisor) Top Vacation badge for 2013.  In addition, one of our Guest Services employees won the ASAP Outstanding Individual award.  We were delighted that our efforts to look after our guests have been recognised and we hope that we continue to live up to these high standards.
Have you seen our Arrivals Video?  It follows the arrival process and you can have the captions translated into your own language.  CLICK HERE
Our rates (effective Spring 2014) offer great value, particularly when staying 28 nights ore more.   With an approximate 10% discount on all stays between 6 and 27 nights and 20% discount on all stays of 28 nights and over, we believe you can't find a more economical way of staying in 4 star accommodation, right in the very centre of Cambridge.
Prices
When viewing our apartment prices you can compare them to the price of staying in a hotel by dividing the nightly rate by the number of bedrooms.  This is done for you on the individual apartment price pages, where you will see the Effective Room Rate.
By looking at the Effective Room Rate you can see that we have accommodation starting from £67.47 + VAT per bedroom. This shows you how Your Space Apartments offers an exciting and economical solution to your accommodation needs.
For details on our Terms and Conditions please view our Terms and Conditions Page
If you would like to discuss your requirements please contact us by email or phone.
Arriving at your Apartment
We try to make your arrival as easy and seamless as possible. We understand that you have probably travelled a long way and all you want to do is settle in and relax.  To view our arrival process and learn how we will support you throughout your stay, please watch the following video.  To watch the video please CLICK HERE.
We also provide a comprehensive guide to making the most out of your stay on our For Guests page, see the menu item at the top of this page.  There you will find details on what you will find in your apartment along with details on local amenities and other useful information.  If there is anything you would like to know that isn't on our guest page please don't hesitate to ask.
Booking or enquiring
Booking is easy, just phone or email your requirements or, even easier, fill in our short on-line form.  If you are just making an enquiry you only have one short page to complete and we will respond within 2 working hours.
Welcome
On arrival you will find a Welcome Pack designed to enable you to relax after your journey. It includes Fairtrade tea, coffee, hot chocolate and sugar, milk, biscuits, bathroom products, soaps and Ecover ecological washing products for the machines. If you are staying 6 nights or more then you will find our Enhanced Welcome Pack, which includes all the above plus eggs, bread, butter, jams, cereals, extra milk, pasta and pasta sauce, salt and pepper. This enhanced pack is particularly appreciated by those who have travelled long distances and who don’t wish immediately to have to go out and shop. However, all of our apartments are within easy reach of shops if there is anything more that you need. If you are staying less than 6 nights then you can upgrade to our Enhanced Welcome Pack for a small fee (details on our services page).
Luxury with flexibility
Beautiful serviced apartments in Cambridge that you can book as you require (min. 2 nights)
Important visitors
Somewhere really special for your important visitor and their family to stay
Re-location
Perfect first stop while a new employee finds their feet in Cambridge or London
Save money
Clear cost benefits of not having to eat out all the time
Halve your accommodation costs by sharing with a colleague
Bring your family or a friend to stay at no extra cost
Use free broadband internet access
Additional services
And to make your life even easier, additional support services such as shopping brought to your fridge and more!
Account Customer Programme
If you are a UK based company looking to book apartments with us why not join our Account Customer Programme.  This programme gives you cheaper apartments, better cancellation terms, full Welcome Packs for all stays and payment by invoice.  For details please click on the above link or call us on 01223 313 383, option 2.
Many companies are turning to Serviced Apartments to host their guests because of the benefits. Says Mark Harris, Travel Intelligence Network - "Some 57% of corporate buyers in the UK are now using serviced apartments to cut costs."
Copyright © 2003-2016. Your Space Apartments Ltd.
