eg technology ltd – product design, development and engineering…
eg Technology
Portfolio
Company
Contact
Menu
eg Technology
Home
Menu
Portfolio
PICA
Analyser
Cardiac Failure Monitor
Wireless pMDI
Infuse
VivoSight Dx
Pelorus 1500 instrument
Primo Ultrasound Unit
Calibration Rig
Parsortix Instrument
SureFeed Microchip Pet Feeder
Lab bricks
Ventouse
Orion Enuresis Monitor
Smart Home Monitoring
Sensipod ELISA Test Analyser
MRI Mouse
Duofertility Monitor
Remote Controlled Lighting
VR2 assay device
CP4 Control Panel
Company
Meet The Team
Latest News
Events
Careers
Expertise
Industrial Design
Mechanical Engineering
Electronics Engineering
Software Engineering
Medical & Diagnostic
Consumer Products
Laboratory & Test Equipment
Biotechnology
Process
How we work
Contact
Find us
eg Technology
Home
Menu
Call us on +44 01223 813184
Email us at info@egtechnology.co.uk
eg technology ltd, Farfield House Albert Road Stow-cum-Quy Cambridge CB25 9AR United Kingdom
How to find us
Connect with us
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Integrated product design and engineering
Industrial design and human factors
Mechanical engineering, testing and analysis
Electronics design
Software development
User focused design
Transforming ideas into successful productseg technology is an integrated product design and engineering consultancy. We’re passionate about developing new and innovative products that will bring success to our clients - and have a big impact on the end user.
Proven process
We put a complete, proven product development framework at your disposal, providing the experience, the people and the systems necessary to take new products from concept through to transfer to manufacture.
Find out More
Broad expertise
Thanks to our outstanding multi-disciplinary team - spanning industrial design, mechanical engineering, electronics engineering and software development - we’re able to tackle complex projects and find the solutions that others cannot.
Find out More
Outstanding work
From start-ups to blue chips, working on everything from medical devices to consumer products to wearable tech, our track record of delivering innovative and inspiring products speaks for itself.
Find out More
Latest Updates
Connect with eg technology at a wide range of events and seminars.
Medica 2016
7th November 2016
eg technology is exhibiting at Medica 2016, the world's leading trade fair for the medical industry at the Messe Düsseldorf from 14-17 November. Danny Godfrey (Founder and Director), David Warwick...
Read More
BSI Certificate
26th October 2016
open a pdf of this certificate here
Read More
Smartphones as a diagnostic device
22nd September 2016
What are the advantages and disadvantages of incorporating a Smartphone into a Medical Device?Just as advances in the electronics industry have enabled trends in medical diagnostics towards point-of-care devices, wearables...
Read More
View all news
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
© 2002-2017 eg technology ltd, Farfield House Albert Road Stow-cum-Quy Cambridge CB25 9AR United Kingdom
Company registered in England and Wales No. 4409934
VAT No. 794 5458 76
Telephone: +44 01223 813184
Email: info@egtechnology.co.uk
Terms of Use
Privacy & Cookies
Web Design by Chameleon
ISO 13485
We are ISO 13485 accredited. We put rigorous quality management at the centre of everything we do, guaranteeing our clients the highest standards of safety, quality, risk management and traceability.
