The Money Charity
Latest News
What should replace the Money Advice Service?
Last autumn, when the Government announced that they would be replacing the Money Advice Service with a single money guidance and capability body, rather than two, we were very pleased. As one of the first and loudest groups calling for
Blog 16th Feb
What would you do if money grew on trees?
Michelle
The Money Charity
At The Money Charity, we know money doesn’t grow on trees, but being on top of what you do have can help you make the most of your life.
That’s why we empower people across the UK to build the skills, knowledge, attitudes and behaviours, to make the most of their money throughout their lives.
What would you do if money made sense?
Helen
The Money Charity
We believe everyone should grow up with a good understanding of money and the skills to make sound financial decisions. Our free, fun and interactive Money Workshops are designed equip students (aged 11-19) with the ability to do just that!
What would you do if the rainy day never came?
Frank
The Money Charity
Whatever situation you're in, you need the skills and knowledge to manage your money and enjoy life.
We work with policy makers every day to help you meet this challenge.
What would you do if money was a ladder rather than a hurdle?
Carrie
The Money Charity
We empower people through training to build skills and confidence to take control of their money.
We aim to help you make money make sense!
What would you do if money wasn't an issue?
Liz
The Money Charity
We understand many people do have issues with money and can find dealing with the financial services industry difficult.
That's why we work with the industry to ensure better outcomes for their consumers.
I ama student
employed
self-employed
unemployed
with0
1
2
3
4
5
6+
child/children.I ama home owner
living with parents
renting
and I havedebt
no debt
How Can We Help?
The Money Charity
hello@themoneycharity.org.uk
Advice & Information
Everyday Money
Financial Products
Saving
Planning
Debt
Students
Resources
Workshops & Training
For Schools & Colleges
For Adults
About
History
Our Trustees
The Team
Our Work
Young People
Adults
Industry
Policy & Research
Work With Us
Donate
Our Funders & Partners
Become A Corporate Partner
Jobs
News
Our News
Blog
External News
The Money Statistics
Press Releases
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Contact Us
Latest News
What should replace the Money Advice Service?
Last autumn, when the Government announced that they would be replacing the Money Advice Service with a single money guidance and capability body, rather than two, we were very pleased. As one of the first and loudest groups calling for
Blog 16th Feb
Featured Articles
Seven ways to stop money worries sinking your degree
With 50% of students saying finance fears affect their studies, a money skills crash course is in order. Save the Student speaks up on how to swerve debt – and how to protect yourself when the going gets tough. Talking
Read More
Students,
3774
The Student Moneymanual – Get your copy now!
The uni survival kit: how to stay quids in. As the UK’s leading financial capability charity, every year we produce the essential guide to student finance and managing money at university, The Student Moneymanual. Completely revised and updated for 2015/16,
Read More
Students,
8745
Tax Guide for Students from LITRG
AN ARTICLE FROM THE LOW INCOMES TAX REFORM GROUP Tax affects us all, at most stages of our life. It doesn’t matter if you are starting school, sitting your exams, entering the world of work or even retiring – we
Read More
Students,
4691
The Big Smoke
Thinking of heading to the Big Smoke in September?   If you are looking at Universities in, and around London, it is a good idea to get clued up on exactly how much it will cost you, whether you are
Read More
Students,
4884
Latest News
16 February
What should replace the Money Advice Service?
Last autumn, when the Government announced that they would be replacing the Money Advice Service with a single money guidance and capability body, rather than two, we were very pleased. As one of the first and loudest groups calling for
18 January
Britons owe more, pay less in interest. Will it last?
Each Briton is spending, on average, £1001 a year on debt interest repayments, 3.79% of average earnings. Between us, that’s more than £50 billion at an annual rate. That might sound like a lot but it’s actually at the lowest
13 December
THE MONEY STATS – Unsecured private debt tops £190 billion
The Money Stats are out today and total outstanding consumer credit has risen above £190 billion, the highest level seen since 2008. For a sense of what this means for the average family, that’s £7,042 for every household in the
16 November
The Money Charity’s work with adults
It’s Financial Capability Week, and that gives us a chance to take stock and celebrate the work that we do every day. Today, we take a quick look at the work we do with Adults. Yesterday, for residents of a
Social
We’ve found all the schools in places like Yorkshire & Wales where it’s not half term and done 15 financial education workshops this week!
@TheMoneyCharity
/TheMoneyCharity
@TheMoneyCharity
The Money Charity
© 2017 The Money Charity. Registered Charity England & Wales (1106941)
Telephone: 020 7062 8933 Email: hello@themoneycharity.org.uk
15 Prescott Place London SW4 6BS
Privacy | Terms | Cookies
Design by Underscore
