BBC NEWS | UK | Northern Ireland | Businesses feel bite of credit crunch
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
BBC NEWS CHANNEL
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 19:12 GMT, Wednesday, 5 November 2008
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Businesses feel bite of credit crunch
By Bobby Friedman
Spotlight reporter
Another day, another set of gloomy headlines about the economy.
The Ulster Bank's chief economist, Richard Ramsey, said that the credit crunch will hit Northern Ireland harder than the rest of the UK.
The problem now is there's no buyers which leaves no work
I've booked to go to Australia, I don't know for how long
Connor McCarthy
It's surprising news, as the conventional wisdom is that our large public sector would shield us from the worst of the downturn.
There is, though, a big difference between an economic survey and everyday life.
Spotlight will tell the stories of people across Northern Ireland as they try to cope with the credit crunch.
In the construction trade, stories of distress are commonplace.
Portaferry on the Ards peninsula has been hit hard.
Local fish and chip shop owner Joe Boyle told us: "There's practically a tradesman in every house in this town."
Twelve months ago Tony McCarthy ran two successful businesses in Portaferry, one a private development firm and the other a supplies shop.
"We have tried everything and the staff have worked hard, but the work is just not there," he said.
Times are tough for Joe Boyle's fish and chip shop in Portaferry
The shop has now been forced to close and it's been months since he last sold a property.
He has laid off almost 20 staff and his son Connor is leaving the firm to look for work overseas.
"The problem now is there's no buyers which leaves no work
I've booked to go to Australia, I don't know for how long", said Connor.
Even those in other industries are feeling the knock-on effect.
Joe Boyle says he has been running his shop for 25 years but business has never been so bad. Builders who used to buy his food are now out of work.
"A lot of small businesses are feeling exactly the same as me. We're wondering can we keep open; we're wondering can we keep going?" Joe told us.
Across Northern Ireland, we've found widespread anger at politicians for what's being perceived as a lack of action.
'Neglecting'
University of Ulster economist Mike Smyth says politicians are neglecting the most important issues facing Northern Ireland.
"Yes, devolution of policing and justice is important, yes, academic selection is an important issue," he says.
"But this is far more important and to waste political energy on these other issues while our economy in trouble is almost unforgivable."
We put these issues to Finance Minister Nigel Dodds and Sinn Fein's Mitchell McLaughlin.
First Minister Peter Robinson has promised action soon, but the people we met on our travels are already feeling the squeeze.
Until more is done to help them, it's likely that their frustration will only increase.
Spotlight: Coping with the Credit Crunch is available on the BBC's iPlayer until Tuesday 11 November
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
RELATED BBC LINKS
Spotlight
BBC News - global financial crisis
TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES
Two in court over Twelfth riots
Major arrests promised over riots
Riot tactics defended by police
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
One-minute World News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 69,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
