BBC NEWS | UK | Scotland | Warning over credit crunch racism
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
BBC NEWS CHANNEL
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 00:04 GMT, Sunday, 8 March 2009
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Warning over credit crunch racism
Jim Murphy made the final address of the three-day conference
Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy has warned the country not to pander to "credit crunch" racism in a speech to the Scottish Labour conference.
He outlined a rising pressure on jobs amid the financial crisis, and attacked "irresponsible bankers on £1m bonuses".
Mr Murphy also mounted a strong defence of the union, branding SNP economic policy "a fantasy beyond all fiction".
He said every political party had a right to identify with the Scottish flag, not just the Nationalists.
Mr Murphy also told delegates in Dundee that Labour must re-commit to the Northern Ireland peace process, following an attack on an army base in Northern Ireland which killed two soldiers.
Turning to the global financial crisis, he said reckless lending in the sub-prime market in the US, matched with "unforgivable banking vandalism closer to home" was to blame.
'Irresponsible bankers'
He told members of the Labour Party faithful an estimated 176 million people were living outside their birth country.
Mr Murphy went on: "All of this creates additional pressure points that were not so prominent in previous recessions.
"While understanding people's fears and anxieties, we as a Labour Party are very clear - no one should ever pander to credit crunch racism.
"This crisis wasn't caused by a Polish plumber or a Bangladeshi shop worker - it was caused by irresponsible actions of international bankers.
"Our party should relentlessly make clear that it is the irresponsible bankers, some of whom are on £1m bonuses - not industrious migrant workers on the national minimum wage - that caused this financial calamity."
Today, in a more complicated, interconnected world, Nationalist economics are a fantasy beyond all fiction
Jim MurphyScottish Secretary
Mr Murphy went on to accuse the SNP of putting its obsession with politics before more pressing economic priorities, adding that the Union offered prosperity in good times and greater security in bad.
"The Scottish Government's own figures show that, if it separated from the UK, it would have a substantial budget deficit, "he said.
"The Nationalists say they can cut taxes while, at the same time spend more on services and build an oil fund.
"This isn't just double counting. It's spending the same money three times."
The Scottish secretary said: "Every Scottish family knows you can't run a home the way the SNP want to run a future independent Scotland.
"Today, in a more complicated, interconnected world, Nationalist economics are a fantasy beyond all fiction."
Mr Murphy said Labour, in the past, had been guilty of letting the SNP assert that patriotism and independence were the same thing."
He said the Saltire belonged to everyone, adding: "No political party should ever seek to claim that they alone have a monopoly on patriotism."
Mr Murphy also warned the conference that Labour did not have the right to expect a fourth term as the UK Government, telling delegates that party had to "re-earn every single vote".
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
SCOTTISH LABOUR CONFERENCE 2009
LATEST NEWS
'Credit crunch racism'
Jim Murphy warns over financial crisis blame
Best of the rest at the conference
Scottish Labour is back says Gray
Party told to prepare for battle
Brown urges tax haven regulation
Labour leader in tax-varying call
Mail plans 'break manifesto vow'
BACKGROUND/ANALYSIS
Scottish Labour conference agenda
Success and challenge for Labour
Brian Taylor's blog
POLITICAL PROFILES
Scots Labour front bench team
In profile: Iain Gray
The UK Cabinet: Who's Who
KEY STORIES
Brown: EU is united over economy
Labour leadership talk dismissed
Gray becomes Scots Labour leader
Alexander quits as Labour leader
AUDIO AND VIDEO
Conference coverage
Day two: speeches
Day one: speeches
Brown calls for global reform
Q&A with Iain Gray MSP
RELATED BBC LINKS
Scottish Politics
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Scottish Labour
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP SCOTLAND STORIES
Scots unemployment rate increases
Police name three road crash dead
Man tried to kill disabled wife
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
One-minute World News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 69,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
