The Late Payment of Commercial Debts Regulations 2013 - Pay on Time
Pay on Time. The Complete Guide to theLate Payment of Commercial Debts
Affiliated to The Credit Protection Association PLC. Helping UK businesses get paid for over 100 years www.cpa.co.uk
Home
Legislation users guide
Late payment interest calculators
Payontime supporters
Forums
News
Credit management advice
Search
Quick links
Basic late payment interest calculatorStandard late payment interest calculatorSign up and become a Payontime supporter!Legislation users guideDiscussions forumsLate Payment Letters & TemplatesFrequently asked questions
Latest news
12 Cash flow rules of ChristmasLate payment legislation updatedAdd your social media links to your supporter listingCookie InformationStatutory Interest calculator revisedSafeguard your business from fraudAdvanced late payment calculatorThe cheque is in the post! 10 late payment excusesCouncil adopts new rules on combating late payment in commercial transactionsThe importance of a payment referenceAre you becoming your customers' unofficial lender?Find Payontime supporters near you!Professor Nicholas WilsonAbout this website
Become a Payontime supporter!
Do you:
Agree payment terms at the outset of a deal and stick to them?
Explain your payment procedures to suppliers?
Pay bills in accordance with any contract agreed with the supplier or as required by law?
Tell suppliers without delay when an invoice is contested, and settle disputes quickly?
Yes?
Then why not become a Payontime supporter and join the UK's largest Prompt Payers Directory.
Free to join!
Promote your business & services in your sector
Display your website and social media connections
Find new customers & suppliers who also take prompt payment seriously
Use the Payontime supporter logo on your site and stationary
Let others know that you believe paying on time is the right way to do business
Sign up Now!View supporting companies already signed up
Changes To The Late Payment Legislation
The late payment of commercial debts regulations 2013 have now been implemented.
Changes to the legislation were tabled at European level which needed to be adopted by England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Consultation ensued and now the existing legislation has been amended. The Late Payment of Commercial Debts Regulations 2013 was introduced on the 16th march 2013
Read more...
About this website
Welcome to payontime.co.uk
In 1997, the Govt in partnership with leading business organisations launched the Better Payment Practice Campaign. They implemented a basket of measures to help businesses get paid on time. When the Group completed their work in 2008, some members of the original team asked to keep this website running.
The purpose of the site is to provide a resource of information to support businesses get paid on time and to provide a community for businesses that support prompt payment to be able to engage with each other.
The site will always be free for anyone to use and get involved with. Products and services offered on the site will always be driven by supporter need and details of supporters will never be offered to any third party. In this way we will always keep to the purpose of the site, to help businesses get paid on time.
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Forgot your password?
Forgot your username?
Create an account
Payontime supporters
Hawk Shield Security Ltd
T R Runciman Joinery
Jammersley Entertainment
Handy Rubbish
Associated Print & Training Limited
Crown Services (Legal Support) Ltd
Approved Bristol Locksmith | AA Lock and Key
Norman Williamson Consulting Engineers
Paris London Productions
Runa Simi Translations
Central Gas Services (NI)
Conatus Health Ltd
Recent forum posts
Debt Recovery
In The late payment of commercial debts (interest) Act.
Last post by james@cpa.co.uk
1 week, 4 days ago
Re: Legislation about Outstanding Payments
In The late payment of commercial debts (interest) Act.
Last post by james@cpa.co.uk
3 weeks, 5 days ago
Penalty for late payment of invoices
In Late payment questions and answers
Last post by james@cpa.co.uk
1 month ago
Getting paid for Late submitted invoices
In Late payment questions and answers
Last post by j.salmon@cpa.co.uk
2 months, 2 weeks ago
Compensation payment for part paid invoice
In Late payment questions and answers
Last post by 05surveyor
3 months ago
Compensation payment for part paid invoice
In The late payment of commercial debts (interest) Act.
Last post by james@cpa.co.uk
3 months ago
More Topics »
Payontime.co.uk is owned by The Credit Protection Association PLC – Company Number: 217953
Address: CPA House, 350 King Street, London W6 0RP - Tel: 020 8846 0000
VAT number: 243 1228 00
The Credit Protection Association PLC is registered with the Information Commissioners Office: Reg number: Z7497476
Parts of this website such as the calculators are registered with the UK Copyright Service: Acc Number 121641 – Reg number 339668
Privacy policy
– Contact us
