CIFF: Children's Investment Fund Foundation
CIFF - Children's Investment Fund Foundation
Priorities
+
Survive & Thrive
Adolescents
Nutrition
Health
Deworming
Education
Climate change
Child protection
Grants
+
Explore our grants
About the grant portfolio tool
Applying for grants
Impact
+
One little pill: national deworming programmes
Cities on the frontline
Growing up HIV-free in Zimbabwe
Ending Ebola
One million malnourished children treated in Nigeria
What does course correction look like?
Saving babies' lives in Rajasthan
Reducing under-5 mortality in Uganda
What went wrong?
Beattie
About
+
Who we are
Approach & values
Finances
Endowment
Governance
Transparency & accountability
Data and evidence
Document library
Team
+
Foundation team
Careers
News
Artboard 1
Artboard 1
Every child deserves to
survive & thrive
today and in the future
Survive & thrive
We seek bold solutions to seemingly intractable challenges for children and adolescents in developing countries.
Click here to learn more
Climate change
Because a low carbon world will help secure a healthy and prosperous future for today's children.
Click here to learn more
Child protection
Fighting to end the scourge of child labour and sexual exploitation, the most horrible of crimes.
Click here to learn more
Impact
STRATEGIC HEADLINES 2017-2021
CIFF is reinventing itself. Not because we have changed our mission, but because we have decided to be bolder. Whatever the challenges, we are determined to help solve some of the biggest problems facing children. In the face of political changes around the world, clear-sighted leadership and robust coalitions are needed now more than ever to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals. For the first time, we are articulating multi-year intent and resourcing, as well as a way of doing business that we think reflects our appetite for performance.
Find out more.
GRANT PORTFOLIO TOOL
Take a moment and explore each of our grants. Read through examples of impact and updates on how our partners are making a real difference in the lives of children.
We are committed to sharing as much information as possible about what we and our partners are learning. Contributing to the global knowledge bank will help all of us speed up the transformational change required so that every child survives and thrives. We appreciate the support of partners in this endeavour.
Explore our grant portfolio.
PHASING DOWN HFCs
We can slow global warming and sea-level rise by reducing super climate pollutants called hydrofluorocarbons or HFCs. Cutting HFCs will avoid half a degree of global warming by the end of the century. This would be a big contribution to the historic 2015 Paris Agreement. Find out more about reducing HFCs and why it matters with this video which is narrated by Durwood Zaelke of the Institute of Governance and Sustainable Development.
Watch our explainer video about HFCs.
Beattie's story
How often do we stop and try to see the world from a child's perspective? For many, it can be a complex and dangerous place. Join Beattie on a journey through her early years.
Check out our interactive children's story.
Endowment
Over the past decade, CIFF's endowment has grown to a value of nearly $4.6 billion, after charitable activities and costs. With this strong financial base, we have built a growing portfolio of charitable grants with a value of over three-quarters of a billion dollars. In the 2015 financial year, grant disbursements rose to $220 million.
Read more
.
Twitter
X
Back
Every child deserves to
survive and thrive
Stay up to date with our quarterly newsletter
Email Address
Please leave this field blank.
Twitter
LinkedIn
Contact
Privacy & Cookies
Credits
Creative Commons
© The Children's Investment Fund Foundation (UK)
Registered in England with company number 04370006 and charity number 1091043
Built by Torchbox
