Advice & Solutions To Help You Tackle Debt. StepChange
We aim to make our website as accessible as possible. However if you use a screen reader and require debt advice you may find it easier to phone us instead. Our phone number is 0 8 0 0 1 3 8 1 1 1 1. Freephone (including all mobiles).
Skip to main content
UK  |  Ireland
Return to Debt Remedy  |  OnlineDMP Login
Search
Go
Home
How we can help you
Our services We offer expert, tailored advice and practical solutions to problem debt.
Debt advice
Debt management plan (DMP)
Individual voluntary arrangement (IVA)
Bankruptcy advice
Debt relief order (DRO)
Equity release and mortgages
Debt arrangement scheme (DAS)
Protected trust deed
Sequestration bankruptcy
Minimal assets process (MAP)
We also provide... Keep on top of your finances with our online tools and helpful advice.
Debt Remedy tool
Online benefits calculator
Money advice
How to cope with debt & stress
7 Days 7 Ways email programme
MoneyAware blog
Existing client? We’ll support you every step of the way, whatever your solution.
Read more
Debt information
Got a debt question?Everything you need to know about debt and
how it affects you.
Debt collection process
Types of debt solutions
Dealing with debt problems
Types of debt & borrowing
Budgeting, money & life changes
Popular searches Five of the most commonly read debt topics.
Debt consolidation
Credit card debt
Debt management companies
CCJs & County Court process
Bailiff help and advice
Get debt advice now Need help now? We’ll recommend the best debt solution
for you.
Try Debt Remedy
Policy & research
Debt in the UKHow we work towards a society free from problem debt.
Our latest debt research
Our key policy campaigns
Consultation responses
UK debt statistics
StepChange in ParliamentWe work with parliamentarians on briefings, events & debt trends
Our work in Parliament
The latest debt trends & analysis from our industry experts
Read our medium.com blog
Our latest debt statisticsDiscover our latest debt insights
Latest debt trends
About us
About our charity Find out more about what makes us the UK’s leading
debt charity.
Our services
Our vision
Our approach
Our people
Our history
Our governance
Working with us How we work with partners, the media and Government.
Who we work with
Press releases
StepChange careers Make a difference to people’s lives.
Read more
Contact us
Get in touch Contact us in the way that’s most convenient for you.
Our phone numbers
Send us an email
Unhappy with our service?
Press enquiries
Contact our Partnerships team
Existing clients Are we helping you deal with your debt problem?
If you’re part way through Debt Remedy...
Complete your online debt advice
If you’re an existing DMP client...
Login to
OnlineDMP
Latest news about debt Get the latest news, statistics and facts
about problem debt in the UK.
Visit our media centre
Get online debt advice
Use our online tool to get tailored debt advice in around 20 minutes.
Get debt help »
New to us?
Find out what information you need to gather before getting advice.
Start here »
Already with us?
Information, advice and how to get in touch if we’re already helping you.
Find out more »
» Our debt solutions
Debt management plan (DMP)
A DMP helps you repay your debt by making lower monthly payments. Available UK-wide.
Debt relief order (DRO)
A DRO could be an option if you have few assets & a low income. Available England, Wales & NI.
IVA
With an IVA you pay a reduced amount over a fixed time period. Available England, Wales & NI.
Equity release and mortgages
Free, whole-of-market advice on equity release and mortgages. Available UK-wide.
Bankruptcy
Called sequestration in Scotland, bankruptcy helps clear debt, but has serious implications.
Minimal assets process (MAP)
If you have a low income & few assets, MAP could be an option. Available in Scotland.
Debt arrangement scheme
A DAS debt payment programme helps you repay at an affordable rate. Available in Scotland.
Trust deed
Make lower payments for 4 years. The remainder can then be written off. Available in Scotland.
» Need debt help now?
Bailiffs at the door?
Understand what bailiffs can and can't do and your rights.
Received a CCJ?
Find out what to do next if you receive a County Court judgment in the post.
Thinking of debt consolidation?
It's important to consider all your options before consolidating debt.
Debt collection agencies
Make sure you know your rights if you're contacted by debt collectors.
Debt management companies
Some UK debt management companies charge a fee – our advice is always free.
Credit card debt problems?
If you're struggling to make your credit card payments, we can help.
Received a decree in the post?
If you've received a decree from a sheriff court, find out what to do next.
Mortgage or rent worries?
We provide expert debt help to people struggling with rent arrears or house repossession.
Debt Remedy tool
FREE personal debt advice in 20 mins
Completely anonymous Personal action plan
Get debt help now
Returning to Debt Remedy?
Your web number
Take control of your finances in 2017
Start to deal with your debt - sign up to our step-by-step support programme of videos, guides and tips.
Start here »
StepChange Debt Charity response to Which? research on overdrafts
This research shows some of the serious problems that overdrafts can cause and further highlights the need for urgent action.
More »
Follow us
Twitter
Facebook
Youtube
LinkedIn
Tweets by @StepChange
We’re one of a number of organisations that provide free debt advice. If you’d like more information on other sources of free debt help and advice you can visit the Money Advice Service website.
Our debt tools
60-second debt test Answer five simple questions and find out if you need debt advice.
Debt consolidation calculator Is debt consolidation right for you?
Payday loans calculator Find out how payday loan debts can quickly spiral.
Online benefits calculator Make sure you’re getting all the benefits you’re entitled to.
MoneyAware
20 weird ways to make money
There are lots of ways to boost your income.
How I went from 36k in debt
Lisa put her debts behind her with our help.
101 ways to save money
How to keep more pennies in your pocket.
Visit our money management and budgeting blog for more tips and advice.
We're rated
4.9 out of 5
Read reviews of StepChange »
This is the average rating of our service by DMP and DRO clients three months into their solution.
Work with StepChange Debt Charity
With the support of other organisations we can help more people struggling with debt problems to access free advice and solutions. Find out more about how you can work with us»
Money advice and tips by email
Sign up to our monthly email for the best budgeting advice and money-saving tips
How we can help you
Expert debt advice and practical debt solutions.
Debt information
Everything you need about debt and how it affects you.
Debt Remedy
Free online debt advice in just 20 minutes.
Existing clients
We’ll support you whatever your solution.
About us
What makes us the UK’s leading debt charity.
Contact us
Get in touch in a way that’s convenient to you.
Media centre
We provide leading insight on problem debt.
StepChange Careers
You’re not just doing a job. You’re making a difference.
We’re rated 4.9 out of 5*
Mobile website
Accessibility
Legal
Slavery statement
Privacy & cookies
Twitter
Facebook
Youtube
LinkedIn
Helping you become debt free...
“I wish to thank your staff for all the great help they gave me when I was in so much debt.They were a pillar of support to me.” (Leslie, Essex)
Foundation for Credit Counselling Wade House, Merrion Centre, Leeds, LS2 8NG trading as StepChange Debt Charity and StepChange Debt Charity Scotland. A registered charity no.1016630 and SC046263. It is a limited company registered in England and Wales (company no:2757055). Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
*This is the average rating of our service based on the StepChange reviews on Feefo by DMP and DRO clients three months into their solution.
© StepChange Debt Charity 2017
