KCC Media Hub - Latest News from Kent County Council
Media Hub
Latest News & Releases from KCC
Search
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Business
Community
Trading Standards
Education
Health & Wellbeing
Travel & Transport
Kent Districts
Ashford Borough Council
Canterbury City Council
Dartford Borough Council
Dover District Council
Gravesham Borough Council
Maidstone Borough Council
Medway Council
Shepway District Council
Sevenoaks District Council
Swale Borough Council
Thanet District Council
Tonbridge and Malling Borough Council
Tunbridge Wells Borough Council
Members Grants
Contact
Latest:
KCC begins consultation on the mental health service
St Clements Way, Greenhithe Improvement Scheme
Award for KCC’s support for Armed Forces
‘One You’ the new health shop comes to Ashford
The SHAPE project is making a difference to Young People in Shepway
New Doors in memorial of two key figures in Hythe
Level three cold weather alert in place for Kent
Music to my ears
Dream come true for wannabe gritter driver
New seeds of growth for Kent Sheds project
KCC begins consultation on the mental health service
Kent County Council began a six week consultation from Friday, 10 February to hear people’s views about the proposed Mental Health Service – Promoting Independence. KCC is proposing to combine the Supporting Independence Service and the Housing Related Support services to create a more joined up system for helping people with mental health issues to…
Continue reading →
Press Releases / Travel
St Clements Way, Greenhithe Improvement Scheme
A multi-million pound scheme to ease congestion on a route between Dartford and Greenhithe has been revealed by Kent County Council. The A206 St Clements Way provides links to the A2 and Dartford Crossing and access to the Bluewater and the Crossways retail parks. Substantial new development has been built and is planned in the…
Press Releases
Award for KCC’s support for Armed Forces
Kent County Council’s commitment and support for defence personnel and their families has been recognised with a bronze award from the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme. Highlighting the council’s support for those who serve or have served in the Armed Forces, and their families, the award recognises KCC’s “statement of intent to support defence personnel” as…
Health and Wellbeing / Press Releases
‘One You’ the new health shop comes to Ashford
The start of a new year often brings resolutions for people to get fitter and healthier, so it’s perfect timing that Ashford has teamed up with Kent County Council and the NHS to open a brand new health hub where people can kick-start their journey to becoming more healthy and active. Ashford Borough Council has…
Folkestone North East / Folkestone South / Folkestone West / Members Grants / Shepway
The SHAPE project is making a difference to Young People in Shepway
The SHAPE project, which aims to tackle youth exclusion, antisocial behaviour and disadvantage, is currently running in its third year in Shepway. The project is a partnership between Shepway Community Safety Partnership, Shepway District Council and Gillingham FC community Trust and has received £3,000 funding from KCC members Hod Birkby, Bob Neaves and Frank McKenna.…
New Doors in memorial of two key figures in Hythe
The community who use the Catholic Church in Hythe are benefitting from new doors thanks to a £3,000 KCC members grant from Martin Whybrow. The previous doors were very old and no longer kept out the cold. Chris Capon MBE a regular at the Church and previous County Councillor first raised this project which was…
2 weeks ago February 9, 2017 in Hythe, Members Grants, Shepway.
Level three cold weather alert in place for Kent
Severe weather forecast for the South East could leave people vulnerable and Kent County Council is reminding residents of simple steps to help friends, families and neighbours. A level three cold weather alert has been announced for the region by the Met Office which triggers actions in the NHS, public health, social care and other community organisations,…
2 weeks ago February 8, 2017 in Health and Wellbeing, Press Releases.
Music to my ears
Martin Vye has given £750 of his combined members grant to Music for Change.- a scheme that brings culturally diverse music and dance into the classroom and the community. The money allowed them to run a successful music and songwriting project with service users form Porchlight, a charity that supports vulnerable and homeless people in Kent,…
2 weeks ago February 7, 2017 in Canterbury, Press Releases.
Dream come true for wannabe gritter driver
It was a dream come true for Paul Fagg when he got to live out his dreams of becoming a gritter driver. The 22-year-old from Seabrook has been interested in all things gritting and winter maintenance since he was 13. He regularly gets up in the middle of the night to salt the roads and…
2 weeks ago February 7, 2017 in Press Releases, Travel.
New seeds of growth for Kent Sheds project
Kent residents are being encouraged to take up funding for new Kent Sheds projects, tackling mental health and wellbeing by encouraging people to make friends, share skills and support their local community through shed-based venues. The Kent Sheds project started in 2014, jointly funded by Libor, building on the success of the international Men’s Sheds…
2 weeks ago February 6, 2017 in Health and Wellbeing, Press Releases.
Launch of the Kings Hill Connect X1 and X2 services
A new bus service linking Kings Hill, West Malling Station and Maidstone will be launched on Monday (February 6). The Kings Hill Connect Services X1 and X2 will provide a fast link for Kings Hill and Maidstone residents between the two locations via the M20. The X2 service will operate between Kings Hill and West…
2 weeks ago February 6, 2017 in Press Releases, Travel.
Paul Carter urges the people of Kent to join Great British Spring Clean
The Leader of Kent County Council is calling on people from clubs, communities, schools and businesses across the county to get active and help clean up their neighbourhoods. With the Great British Spring Clean taking place in the first weekend of March, KCC is planning a number of its own clean ups in Kent and…
2 weeks ago February 6, 2017 in Press Releases.
New Chairs for Hawkinge Community Centre
Hawkinge Community Centre is benefitting from some new chairs thanks to a £4,000 KCC members grant from Susan Carey. The new chairs form part of a project to improve facilities at Hawkinge Community Centre which include wi-fi access and large screen for presentations. The management of the community centre has been transferred to the Town…
February 5, 2017 in Elham Valley, Members Grants, Shepway.
KCC Leader welcomes flood defences funding
Kent County Council has welcomed news that multi-million pound funding has been given to the Leigh, Hildenborough and East Peckham flood defences. The £4.6 million will go towards the flood defence schemes and joins the committed £2.5m for the Leigh from KCC. It comes after extensive work between Kent County Council, the Environment Agency, Maidstone,…
February 2, 2017 in Press Releases.
Open your heart to fostering in Herne Bay
A fostering information event is being held in Herne Bay on 7 February to help boost recruitment in this vital sector. More carers are needed across the county to help provide stable, permanent homes for vulnerable young individuals, which can make a crucial difference to their future. Prospective foster carers can hear presentations from people…
February 1, 2017 in Fostering, Press Releases.
Pantomime for all – oh yes it is
Herne and Sturry county councillor Alan Marsh worked alongside the Sarah Thorne Theatre Company to allow people to experience pantomime for the first time. This included the disabled, retired, unemployed and children. The £3,000 grant also enabled a specialist singer to attend an event for the deaf, which was a first for the area. Those attending…
January 30, 2017 in Herne and Sturry, Press Releases.
Kent County Council plans to stop illegal lorry parking on Kent’s roads.
Kent County Council is looking into the feasibility of a number of small lorry parks across the county to help alleviate the blight of illegal lorry parking. The new parks would be run as a private and public partnership and KCC will work closely with the private sector to identify what funding options exist to…
January 27, 2017 in Press Releases, Roads, Travel.
Post navigation
← Older posts
SocialView KentCountyCouncil’s profile on FacebookView KCCpressdesk’s profile on TwitterView kcc_kent’s profile on InstagramView KentCountyCouncil’s profile on YouTubeView kentcountycouncil’s profile on VimeoMost readKCC begins consultation on the mental health service Kent County Council began a six week consultation from Friday,…The Kent Movie Map – detailing the county’s filming… Movie fans who want to see if their town has…Kent Highways UpdatesMy TweetsRSS
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem
