FairPensions | The campaign for Responsible Investment
Skip to Content
Take Action
Donate
Contact
FairPensions campaigns for major institutional investors to adoptResponsible Investment: using shareholder powerto hold companies to account.
Credit: Andy Powe11
Credit: kodak agfa
Credit: Polly Braden
Credit: Paolo Margari
Credit: Paolo Margari
Latest News
Traditional thinking on tobacco investing goes up in smoke
24-Jan-2012
A report released today casts serious doubt over the assertion that pension funds are ‘duty bound' to invest in tobacco.
Read the report on tobacco investing
Government plans to tackle high pay won't work without responsible shareholders
23-Jan-2012
FairPensions has responded to Vince Cable's decision to hand more power to shareholders in order to curb excessive executive pay. Speaking in response to Cable's announcement, the charity's CEO said that binding shareholder votes won't be enough to challenge a culture of spiralling remuneration for company directors.
Read our response to Vince Cable's announcement
Pensions Minister gives nod of approval to FairPensions' work
20-Jan-2012
In an adjournment debate in the House of Commons today the Pensions Minister, Steve Webb MP, gave a warm response to a speech on responsible capitalism from Jon Cruddas MP.
Read the response from the minister
Responsible capitalism needs responsible shareholders, says Jon Cruddas MP
20-Jan-2012
In a speech in parliament later today Jon Cruddas MP will argue that the political debate on ‘responsible capitalism' has not gone far enough to deliver real change. The MP for Dagenham will insist that shareholder activism can be part of a more responsible capitalism, but that giving shareholders new powers will not be enough to achieve this.
More on Jon Cruddas' speech
Investors should persuade supermarkets to pay Living Wages
19-Jan-2012
FairPensions has responded to a report, released today by the Fair Pay Network, on low pay in Supermarkets. With almost 900,000 people working for one of Britain's four largest supermarkets, the report exposes the widespread low pay problem in the sector.
Read our press release about low pay in supermarkets
Give people power over their capital
16-Jan-2012
FairPensions has responded to this morning's speech on employee ownership by the Deputy Prime Minister.
Read our Press Release
Join us | rss | become a supporter | donate
About UsOur Member Organisations
Our Supporters
Our History
Our Team
FairPensions' Governance
Strategic Framework
Vacancies
What we doCampaigning
Policy & Public Affairs
Research & Publications
Pension Fund Recommendations
Newsletter
Events
What You Can DoEmail your Pension Fund
Become a Supporter
Become a Shareholder Activist
Make a Donation
Recruit a member organisation
Learn about the issue
What is Responsible Investment?New to RI? Watch this!
Impact of RI
History of RI
What does RI have to do with me?
Engaging with Companies
Investor ResourcesOur work with Investors
Why adopt RI?
RI Implementation Guide
Self-Assessment Survey
Best Practice Guide
Investor Briefings
Investor Case Studies
PressPress Releases
Latest Press Coverage
Join our Press List
JustPay! Campaign
Blog
Campaign
JustPay! - the Living Wage
Campaign
Telecoms & Human Rights
Take Action
Become a Shareholder Activist
New Report
The Future of Fiduciary Obligation
Latest Publications
Investor Rankings
Member Organisations
