Scotwest Credit Union
Access Online Banking
Login
Home
About
About Scotwest
Become a Member
What Makes Us Different
Credit Union Regulation and Reporting
Scotwest Credit Union 25th Anniversary
Vacancies
Savings
Our Guide to Savings
Scotwest Saver Account
Christmas Savings Account
Notice Accounts
Be MoneyWise
Young Scot Extra Savings Account
Dividend Rates
Loans
Our Guide to Loans
Unsecured Loans
Car Loan
Consolidation Loan
Fast £500
Revolvaloans
SavingsSecure Loans
Loan Rates
Mortgages
Our Guide to Mortgages
Fixed Rate Mortgage
Variable Rate Mortgage
Mortgage Rates
Partnerships
Our Partnerships
Scotwest in Schools
Select Employer Partners
Bona Fide Organisations
The Scotwest Lottery
My Credit Union Renfrewshire
Member Information
News
CEO Blog
2016 Scotwest AGM
Online Banking & Mobile App
Free Life Savings and Loan Protection
Scotwest Terms and Conditions
Scotwest Credit Union Rule Book
Audited Financial Statements
Discounts and Benefits
Help With Finances
Complaints
The Scotwest Car Loan
Find out more and apply now
Looking to get on the property ladder?
Scotwest Mortgages
Fixed and variable rates available
Find out more
Flexible
Loans
with competitive rates
Learn about loans
Get saving!
Scotwest Credit Union is one of the largest credit unions in the UK existing to provide ethical, competitive and fair financial services to its members.
As a financial co-operative, you must be a member of Scotwest to access its products and services.
Joining Scotwest is simple and straightforward. You can apply to become a member if you:
live or work within the West of Scotland*
work for one of our named employers
a Young Scot Card Holder
*This includes: Argyll & Bute, East Ayrshire, East Dunbartonshire, East Renfrewshire, Glasgow, Inverclyde, North Ayrshire, North Lanarkshire, Renfrewshire, South Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire and West Dunbartonshire.
Find out more about becoming a member of Scotwest here.
You can find out more about Scotwest and credit unions here.
Join Scotwest
Start experiencing the benefits for yourself!
Become a member of Scotwest
Register for Online Banking
Already a Scotwest Member but not signed up yet?
Register for Online Banking here
Unsecured Loan Calculator
A guide to loan repayments helping you see how competitive a Scotwest loan can be.
Launch the calculator
×
Unsecured Loans Calculator
Please use our unsecured loans calculator as a guide to repayments. The calculator can be used for amounts between £250 and £30,000 and for loan terms between 3 months and 84 months. If you are looking to borrow outwith these limits, please contact the Member Enquiry Line on 0141 227 2390 for assistance.
How much are you looking to borrow? £
Repayment frequency
Please select
Monthly
4-weekly
Fortnightly
Weekly
Please enter
Preferred loan term
Months
or
Preferred repayment amount £
Continue
Your chosen loan rate:
Total amount
Total interest:
Repayments:
Repayment amount:
Frequency:
This summary is for illustrative purposes only, so as to give you an overview of the potential cost of borrowing. Please note, your final payment may be at a reduced amount.
Latest news
Welcome to ClinTec International
7th February 2017
We are delighted to announce that ClinTec International has joined Scotwest as our latest Select Employer Partner. Employees of ClinTec International can now save with Scotwest and make payments towards any Scotwest Loan through their payroll as well as enjoy … Continued
Read more
Scotwest Credit Union Directors
1st February 2017
We are pleased to announce that following their election at the Scotwest Credit Union AGM on 28 November 2016, Scott Frame, Cathy Jamieson, Caroline McMichael and Ian Turner take up their positions as Directors of Scotwest Credit Union from 1st … Continued
Read more
Scotwest Credit Union Rule Book
23rd January 2017
We are pleased to present the updated Scotwest Credit Union Rule Book, approved by our regulators the Financial Conduct Authority. The changes to the previous Rule Book were approved by Scotwest Members at our Annual General Meeting in November 2016. … Continued
Read more
Our Services
Savings
Scotwest Saver Account
Christmas Savings Account
Notice Accounts
Young Scot Extra Savings Account
MoneyWise Account
Scotwest Loans
Unsecured Loans
SavingsSecure Loans
Revolvaloans
Fast £500
Consolidation Loan
Mortgages
2 Year Fixed Rate Mortgage
Variable Rate Mortgage
More Information on Scotwest
About
Contact Us
Vacancies
The Credit Union Difference
Select Employer Partners
Online Banking & Mobile App
Scotwest in Schools
The Scotwest Lottery
Employer Partners
Data Protection & Privacy
Complaints
Website Security
Accessibility
Cookies
Financial Services Compensation Scheme Deposit Protection
Membership with Scotwest
Membership
Discounts and Benefits
Get in touch with Scotwest
At Scotwest we’re always willing to give a helping hand with all your banking needs. Please feel free to contact us and we will be happy to help in any way we can.
Phone us on
0141 227 2390
Make an enquiry online
Contact us
Address
Scotwest Credit Union Ltd
13 Elmbank Street
Glasgow
G2 4PB
© 2015 Scotwest Credit Union Ltd.
Scotwest Credit Union is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (FRN 213616)
×
Important Information
Scotwest Credit Union is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (FRN 213616). Details appear on the Financial Services Register (www.fca.org.uk/register).
The minimum age to become a member of Scotwest is 18 years. If you are aged 16-17 years, you can join as a Young Member and will be transferred to full membership upon reaching 18 years. Young Members can take advantage of our savings products. Upon reaching 18 years, Young Members can apply to use our loans and mortgage products. Under current legislation, members have the right to cancel their membership with Scotwest, without penalty within fourteen days of their membership application being processed. However, membership of Scotwest is voluntary and your account can be closed at any time, providing no debts are outstanding. To cancel your membership, please contact the Scotwest office.
Members agree to be sent information about Scotwest Credit Union, its products and services, promotions and developments as well as account statements. Scotwest Credit Union is committed to the provision of service of the highest quality to its members. In the event however, that a member is dissatisfied with any aspect of this service, Scotwest will endeavour to resolve any complaint as effectively and efficiently as possible. Members will be issued with further information after joining. In addition, if we have been unable to resolve your complaint within eight weeks, or you are not satisfied with our response, you can refer this matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This organisation has been set up by law to help settle individual disputes between consumers and financial firms. Scotwest Credit Union is covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. This scheme provides a safety net if a Bank, Building Society or Credit Union should fail. Further information on the scheme will be issued after joining. Please note that all calls to our Member Enquiry Line may be monitored and/or recorded in order to maintain and improve our service.
PROOF OF IDENTITY AND ADDRESS
Under money laundering regulations, we are required to verify the identity and address of all new members before we can accept their application. To do this, we will make an electronic check. This process involves checking the details you supply against those held on a number of specific databases which Experian, the credit reference agency used by Scotwest Credit Union for the check, has access to. For example they will check to see whether you appear on the Electoral Register at the address you have provided. Scoring methods will be used in the verification process as this gives a more thorough check of the available data. A record of this process will be kept that may be used to help other companies to verify your identity. We may also pass information to organisations involved in fraud prevention to protect ourselves and our members from theft and fraud. If you supply false or inaccurate information and we suspect fraud, we will record this and share this information with other organisations. We may also, if necessary ask you to send us documents to confirm your identity and address.
