Home | Department of the Environment
Jump to navigation
Main menu
Home
Welcome to Department of the Environment
The Department of the Environment website
The functions and services delivered by the Department of the Environment (DOE) have been transferred to new departments. The links below will guide you to information on the new websites: Department for Communities (DfC), Department for Infrastructure (DfI) and Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA).
Quick Links
Planning NI
Motoring on nidirect
Northern Ireland environment link
NIEA Net Regs
Our responsibilities
Waste
Promoting a more sustainable approach to dealing with waste in Northern Ireland by drafting waste legislation and implementating waste management policy
… more
Water
Protecting the aquatic environment by regulating water quality and hydrological processes whilst considering the needs of industry, agriculture and the protection of public health.
… more
Pollution
Activities undertaken to prevent, monitor and control pollution of the air, land and water
… more
Biodiversity
Protecting and preserving Northern Ireland's wildlife and habitats from invasive alien species and other environmental threats.
… more
Historic environment
Recording, protecting, conserving and promoting our diverse built heritage so that it can be enjoyed by future generations.
… more
Land and landscapes
Information on land quality and soil as well as details on the geology of Northern Ireland's distinctive and precious landscapes.
… more
Road users
Promoting and improving road safety via education, licensing and regulation of transportation.
… more
Marine
Protecting Northern Ireland's coastal and marine environment via legislation, licensing and permits and conservation activities
… more
Protect the environment
Actions taken to raise awareness and counteract threats to the environment on both a local and global scale
… more
Local government
Details of how Local Government Policy Division supports councils in delivering strong and effective local government along with information on funding and finances.
… more
DOE statistics and research
Statistics and research that relate to environment or carrier bag levy have move to daera-ni.gov.uk, all other DOE statistics and research content are available at infrastructure-ni.gov.uk
Planning
Determination of regionally significant and “called-in” planning applications; regional planning policy’ planning legislation; oversight and guidance for councils and performance management.
… more
nidirect
nibusinessinfo.co.uk
GOV.UK
