Gambia Horse And Donkey Trust
GAMBIA HORSE AND
DONKEY TRUST
Winner of the
Equestrian Social Media Awards People's Choice Africa and Middle East 2014
Registered Charity No.
1096814
Home
What
We Do
Contact
Horses & Donkeys
How To Help
GHDT Shop
Notices & Events
Latest News
Information
A
HEALTHY WORKING EQUINE CAN INCREASE THE INCOME OF A FAMILY BY 500%
Fundraising
Officer Job Opportunity  - Read More >>
X
Veterinary
Volunteers Required  - Read
More >>
X
Petplan
& ADCH Animal Charity Awards 2016 RESULTS  - Read More >>
New
Patron and Supporters  - Read More >>
The Gambia Horse and Donkey Trust (GHDT)
is a small charity, registered in both the UK and The Gambia.
The GHDT was founded in 2002 by the late Stella Marsden OBE
and her sister Heather Armstrong who is the charity's Director. With no tradition of
horsemanship in The Gambia and a combination of poor management, high disease risk and
poverty, farmers were investing comparatively large amounts of money for a working animal
only for it to die, too often within six months. Not only was this causing further
hardship for the farmers, it was also creating a serious animal welfare problem and the
veterinary services did not have the infrastructure or finances to be able to help the
farmers.
The aim of the GHDT is to reduce rural poverty
in The Gambia through improving the health, welfare and productivity of working animals.
A healthy working animal can increase a
farming family's income by up to 500% and buying an animal is a big investment for a
family. If the animal becomes sick or dies not only the animal suffers, but its owners
suffer too. The Gambia is one of the poorest countries in Africa and is unable to provide
all the veterinary support that the farmers require, so when the animals become ill,
sometimes the owners are simply unable to find help for it.Keeping horses and donkeys healthy in The Gambia is a real challenge; insect
borne diseases such as Sleeping Sickness (Trypanosomiasis), African Horse Sickness, and
tick fever are all too common and when these problems are combined with poor nutrition and
management caused by lack of knowledge and poverty, the results can be disastrous for the
farmers.
We believe in providing the Gambian people with the skills
and knowledge to prevent and solve their own problems, creating a long term, sustainable
solution.
We rely heavily upon dedicated volunteers who offer their
time and services to help us, and we employ a team of local Gambian staff. The GHDT is a
small charity that has had many great achievements, but to continue this work your support
is urgently sought. We need your help and we make every single penny count. Our aims are
achieved through a variety of projects including:
Educational
Programmes
Community
Development
Collaboration
Veterinary
Treatments
Annual Show
Annual Show
Top
of page
Home
Copyright © 2005 - 2017
GHDT. All rights reserved.
End
