North West Plan Partial Review - Regional Spatial Strategy Partial Review
NWPPR Home
Review Process
Consultation Results
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Downloads
Consultation Documents
NWPPR Information
Interim Draft Policies
Workshop Downloads
GTAA Downloads
Draft Consultation Options
Newsletters
Contact
You are here: Home
The North West Plan Partial Review
4NW is the Regional Leaders Board for England's Northwest and
is also the designated regional planning body for the Northwest. This means they
have been asked by the government to prepare, monitor and review the Regional
Spatial Strategy in partnership with others.
The Regional Spatial
Strategy, or North West Plan, is a regional plan that has to be taken into
account when decisions are being made about planning applications. It provides a
spatial framework for development in the region and for other regional
strategies, and it promotes the sustainable development of the North West.
Originally covering a wider
range of topics, since Summer 2008, the Partial Review has focussed on three
topics:
Gypsy & Traveller Pitch Provision
Travelling Showpeople Pitch Provision
Regional Parking Standards
Getting involved in the Review Process.
4NW is the Regional Leaders Board for England's Northwest and is also the designated regional planning body for the Northwest. To find out how you can contribute, click here.
Quick links:
News: North West Plan Partial Review Consultation now closed
The North West Plan Partial Review consultation closed in mid October 2009. The next stage is the Examination in Public (EiP) which will take place in March 2010. For further details on the preparations and lead up to the EiP please click here. The North West Plan Partial Review website will remain open to enable access to all the consultation documents and supporting material produced by 4NW up to the submission stage in July 2009. >>
New Downloads: Draft NWPPR Reports
Submitted Draft North West
Plan Partial Review July 2009
Official Response Form (MS Word): North West Plan Partial Review Report
Submitted Draft North West Plan Partial Review: Supporting Documents
Submitted Draft North West Plan Partial Review: Background Documents
Consultation Results:
Results of the online consultation for the various stages of the North West Plan Partial Review are now available online. These results include the draft project plan, consultation on draft options and the consultation on draft policies. >>
© CAG Consultants 2008 | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | Links | Contact us
