AEA – Association for Environmental Archaeology
↓ Skip to Main Content
Search for:
Home
The AEA
Committee Members
Constitution
News
Events
Publications
Environmental Archaeology
‘Include material of a controversial nature where important issues are involved’: a history of Environmental Archaeology and a review of its archive
A new geological period? Defining the Anthropocene and Environmental Archaeology
Geoarchaeology: the underlying framework for environmental studies
Fairy circles and peat bogs: reconstructing ecosystems of the past: Palaeoecology in Environmental Archaeology
The environmental context of past societies: Seventeen years of archaeobotany in Environmental Archaeology
Zooarchaeology and the journal Environmental Archaeology
“No longer do archaeologists have to rely solely on seeds, bones and shells”: Isotope analysis is the future of environmental archaeology
Circaea
Conference Monographs
Newsletter
Online publications
AEA Student blog
Awards
Grants
Join/Renew membership
Contacts
Association for Environmental Archaeology
The AEA promotes the advancement of the study of human interaction with the environment in the past through archaeology and related disciplines.
Follow @envarch
Join the AEA
The AEA We hold annual conferences and other meetings, produce a quarterly newsletter for members, and publish our conference monographs, as well as our journal - Environmental Archaeology: The journal of human palaeoecology.
AEA membership is open to all those actively involved or interested in any aspect of environmental archaeology.
Introducing the journal
Latest News
John Evans Prize 2016 Winners Announced
Student Blog: ‘Geoarchaeology across the ages – the Bradford Kaims, Northumberland.’
Student Blog: student contributors sought!
Nominations are open for a 3-year membership prize for a local/community archaeological society
Student Blog: A Week at the Museum: 2015 NERC Palaeoecology Course
Upcoming EventsIntegrated Microscopy Approaches in Archaeobotany 201725 Feb 17ReadingAEA Spring conference 201729 Apr 17Leicester
A new geological period? Defining the Anthropocene and Environmental Archaeology
AEA Spring Conference, April 2017 April 29th 2016, Leicester
New directions in data visualisation in environmental archaeology
Recent AEA conferences (e.g. Plymouth 2015, Rome 2016) have focussed attention on the challenges of Big Data and synthesis within environmental archaeology. For the 2017 spring meeting we would like to develop this theme by exploring new ways of visualising environmental archaeological data. With the development of new analytical methods and an ever-expanding suite of technological solutions for data analysis and visualisation, new opportunities for presenting complex datasets with increased clarity are emerging. Coherent data presentation is critical if we are to achieve meaningful dissemination of environmental archaeological research both within and beyond the discipline. The latter arena is becoming increasingly important as the value of archaeological research in debates and policy development concerning heritage management and responses to environmental change are being made apparent.
The conference will include three formats of presentation: traditional lectures (20 minutes); Ignite format (5 minute presentations with a maximum of 10 slides); and posters. There will be a prize competition for the best student poster (£50). A pre-conference dinner will take place on Friday 28th April (details to follow).
Click here to go the conference website for more details.
© 2017
AEA
↑
Responsive Theme
powered by
WordPress
