Business Opportunities And Ideas
Inspiration, ideas and opportunities for your business!
Business Opportunities And Ideas
About
Blog
Contact
Forums
Get updates by Email
Posts (RSS)
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Welcome To Business Opportunities And Ideas
If you're new here, you may want to subscribe for free updates: Email
RSS
Facebook
Twitter
If you can't find what you're looking for please feel free to ask John.
Thanks for stopping by the Business Opportunities and Ideas blog, I hope I’m able to help you find the right business idea for you.
If you’re interested in starting your own business you’ll find a range of ideas for businesses to start in the business ideas section.
If you already run a business or you want to buy into a proven business opportunity (aka a franchise) you’ll find the business opportunities and the franchise business opportunities sections useful.
I primarily blog about small or home based business ideas as I believe everyone can and should start their own business from home.
Some of the ideas are very briefly described, others are explored in more detail with advice on how to start the business, you’ll find most of these detailed business ideas in the how to start a business section.
Small Business Ideas
Small businesses are the backbone of the UK economy so I’m always keen to help more fellow entrepreneurs find the right small business idea for them and turn it into a successful small business. Here’s some of my most popular small business ideas for 2015:
Starting a leaflet distribution business.
Opening a gym.
Starting a consultancy business.
Starting a dog walking business.
Home Based Business Ideas
Home based businesses are ideal for most first time entrepreneurs, by starting a business from home you keep your overheads low allowing you to become profitable faster. Here’s three of my most popular home business ideas:
Starting a bookkeeping business.
Starting a web design business.
Starting a wedding planning business.
Online/Internet Business Ideas
Many of my own businesses are Internet based so I love a good Internet business idea.
Starting a blogging business.
Starting an ebook business.
Starting an affiliate marketing business.
Plus you’ll find many more in the post Online Business Ideas.
If you none of those popular business ideas take your fancy then please browse the site, or if you’d prefer to find your own new business ideas the post 10 Tactics For Finding New Business Ideas should help. Then once you’ve decided on an idea please consider Testing Your Own Business Idea before you invest heavily in them.
Once you’ve turned your business idea into a reality you’ll find plenty of marketing ideas in the post 171 FREE Marketing Ideas that will help you find customers for your new business.
Business Opportunities
If you’d prefer not to start a business totally from scratch then an established business opportunity might be better, here are three of the most popular ones that I’ve written about:
Starting a McDonalds.
Becoming a mortgage broker.
Becoming a Utilities Warehouse Distributor.
There are also various home and small business opportunities listed in the how to start a business category.
Who writes Business Opportunities and Ideas
Business Opportunities and Ideas is written by John Crickett. I am an entrepreneur based in the UK who has been running my own businesses since September 11th 2001. During that time I’ve started a number of businesses and experienced my fair share of entrepreneurial success and failure. Thankfully the successes have outweighed the failures and running my own businesses has been a successful, satisfying and profitable experience.
As my background is primarily in technology based business. Computers and IT in particular, many of the business ideas I write about are based around the use of computer, IT and the Internet. I’m also a big fan of online businesses because the Internet has made it cheap and easy for just about anyone to start a business from home with little more than a laptop and Internet connection.
If you have any questions about the blog or suggestions for new business ideas to write about, please feel free to contact me.
Be Sociable, Share!
Tweet
Recent Posts
Does anyone still read this blog? (Business Opportunities and Ideas)
Hurray! I’ve finished my MBA
Whole-Life Costing
Get Out While You Can – George Marshall
Tax On A Second Job
Lighter Than Air Vehicles
Never, Ever Stop Marketing
Can You Suggest A Business Idea?
How To Make 10 million Pounds From Art?
Expect the Unexpected
Categories
Ask John
Book Reviews
Business Angels
Business Games
Business Ideas
Business News
Business Opportunities
Business Opportunity Scams
Business Team
Business Turnaround
Carnival
Customer Service
Entrepreneurs Profiles
Entrepreneurship
Finance
Franchises
General
Home Business
How Not To Start Your Business
How To Start A Business
Internet Business
Inventors and Inventions
Marketing
Marketing Ideas
MBA For Entrepreneurs
Niche Markets
Property Business
Public Relations
Reviews
Sales
Site
Small Business
Startups
Strategy
Technology Business
Archives
May 2015
September 2013
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
Advertisements
FREE Business Advice
Got a business question, business opportunity, or a business issue you'd like to discuss? Then join my business forum for some FREE advice.
About
This blog is about business opportunities and ideas that I spot, think of or hear about and think are useful and interesting. It is intended to provide ideas and inspriation for you to help you find the right business idea for you to then grow it into a successful business.
Who am I? I'm John, an entrepreneur based in the UK. You can read more about me here.
FREE Guides
How To Start An Ebook Business
This guide explains how to start making money online with an ebook business.
Advertisements
Amazon.co.uk Widgets
Pages
Business Ideas
Small Business Ideas
Home Business Ideas
New Business Ideas
Internet Business Ideas
Business TV
Business Books
Free Business Guides
Businesses For Sale
Resources
FAQ
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Business Opportunities And Ideas is written by John Crickett and © 2007-2013 Trivial Business Limited. The theme is based on the xMark Theme by: Lisa Sabin-Wilson
