Why Study Economics
Why Study Economics
Home
Your ambitions
During your study
After you graduate
About us
Blog
What is Economics?
Economics is about choice and the impact of our choices on each other. It relates to every aspect of our lives, from the decisions we make as individuals or families to the structures created by governments and firms. The economic way of thinking can help us make better choices.
This site can answer your questions about studying Economics at university in the UK and help you prepare for university life.
News
Economic Experience at Leicester
The Economics Experience Event gives A-level students a taste of life as an Economics Undergraduate at the University of Leicester. The next event is in June 2016.
Warwick Summer School
Warwick University is running a Summer School in July and August for current or prospective students of Economics.
The Economic Review
We work with the University of Southampton to produce the Economic Review.
Latest on our blog
Economics comes out top again
Philanthropy Paradox
Eight more parody songs that actually teach you some economics
"I was curious about everything that happens around me. Studying economics satisfies my curiosity."—Economics student
"Economics is about the world around us; it's current; it's about the modern world; it's about how we behave, how businesses behave and how the government behaves."—James McCullagh, BBC Young Apprentice
"[E]conomics is about politics, it's about political choices, about how you want the market economy to work and who you think should bear what burden in difficult circumstances."—David Miliband
"A degree in economics is extremely useful even if you do not intend to become an economist. It is a numerate and theoretical degree, and signals to employers that you can handle figures and you have an analytical mind."—Economics graduate
"The ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when they are right and when they are wrong, are more powerful than is commonly understood. Indeed the world is ruled by little else."—John Maynard Keynes
"By the end of the degree you emerge as a student who can read as well as a law graduate, compute as well as an accountant, and analyze data as well as a statistician."—Economics student
"It is an excellent degree and provides you with a solid skills base. The ability to question things in the way that economics forces you to, and look for underlying causes/incentives, is very useful in the work place."—Economics graduate
"The widespread poverty, misery, and crises in many parts of the world are strong reminders that understanding economic and social laws can make an enormous contribution to the welfare of people."—Gary Becker, Nobel Prize Banquet speech
"Go for it! Economics is about a different way of thinking and looking at the world. You can apply the economic way of thinking to almost everything, not just to business or finance and such."—Economics graduate
Resource pack for teachers and parents - including teaching resources and information on studying economics
Why Study
Economics? on Facebook
Already studying Economics?
Visit our sister sitea lifeline for current students of Economics, including advice on modules, tips for succeeding in your degree, and options for afterwards.
Published by The Economics Network at the University of Bristol. All rights reserved.Feedback: econ-network@bristol.ac.uk
Supported by the Royal Economic Society and the Scottish Economic Society
