Learning and Work Institute England
Skip to main content
Learning and Work Institute England
Toggle navigation
Wales Site
@LearnWorkUK
LinkedIn
Youtube
Facebook
Search form
SearchGO!
What we do About us
Who we work with
How we work
Strategic plan
Impact
Work with us
Our Work Life and Society
Work and Careers
Improving the system
Promoting learning and skills
Our Thinking Blog
News
Consultation Responses
Policy Solutions
Search
Our Resources Statistics
Downloadable Publications
Life and society
Improving the system
Work and careers
Promoting learning and skills
Our events Events and Training
Promote
Bespoke Events
Terms and Conditions
Sector events
Festival Of Learning
Our Events Offer
Join Us Become a supporter
Become a partner
Get involved with Festival of Learning
Membership Terms and Conditions
Our members
Impact Report 2015-16 - Making learning and work count
Our vision is for a prosperous and fair society in which learning and work provide opportunities for everyone to realise their potential and ambitions throughout life. Our impact report shows how our work in 2015-16 contributes to this.
Festival of Learning - nominations NOW OPEN
We are pleased to announce that nominations for the 2017 awards are now open, until 31 March. Festival of Learning is the biggest celebration of lifelong learning in England.
Read more
Work and Careers
Work placements crucial for technical education and training
Learning and Work Institute, in partnership with Fair Train, has been commissioned by the Department for Education (DfE) to gather evidence on good quality, effective work placements and any challenges to delivering these.
Read more
Learning and Work Institute's analysis of labour market statistics
Learning and Work publish monthly statistics on the current labour market in the UK
Read more
Skills at the Heart of Industrial Strategy
Learning and Work Institute has welcomed the fact that skills are at the heart of the Government's Industrial Strategy.
Read more
Subscribe to our updates
Keep up-to-date with our latest work by subscribing to our fortnightly updates or monthly labour market analysis
Read more
Statistical Analysis
Learning and Work Institute provide a free analysis on labour market and work statistics on an ongoing basis.
Read more
What we do
Research and development
Our skilled policy leads can support you with research projects, policy advice, evaluation and feasibility studies, product development, trends and analysis, and with piloting new approaches.
Policy
Become our supporter or partner with us. Stay informed, help us influence policy, sponsor our campaigns or access our resources or events at discounted prices.
Conferences, events and training
Our conferences, seminars, training and online events can support your professional development, and our in-house training offer can be tailored to your organisation’s needs.
Read more
Life and society
1 in 6 UK adults struggle with literacy, 1 in 4 with numeracy, while many struggle with other life skills. Our work aims to build more integrated support, better local planning and delivery, taking forward the recommendations of our Family Learning Inquiry.
Work and Careers
Despite high UK employment rates too many people are stuck on low pay or no pay, negatively impacting our economy. Our work explores how integrated support, a National Advancement Service and world class Apprenticeships can help.
Improving the system
The UK has skills deficits that are holding us back, but public investment has fallen by a third in five years. Our work looks at how the learning, skills and employment systems can achieve more with less - for individuals, employers and the tax payer.
Promoting learning and skills
We want a society where everyone has a chance to learn and achieve. Using our research and evidence, we challenge thinking, stimulate debate, advocate on behalf of learners and practitioners, so that everyone can benefit from lifelong learning.
The Learning & Work Institute
Contact us
Tel: (+44) 0116 204 4200
Fax: (+44) 0116 204 6988
Email: enquiries@learningandwork.org.uk
Connect with us:
@LearnWorkUK
LinkedIn
Youtube
Facebook
National Learning and Work Institute (England and Wales), Chetwynd House, 21 De Montfort Street, Leicester, LE1 7GE, UK
A company limited by guarantee registered no. 2603322 and registered charity no. 1002775, Registered address: 21 De Montfort Street, Leicester, LE1 7GE, UK
Accessibility
Contact
Privacy & Terms
