Employee Scheduling and Workforce Management Software| Intellicate
UK Head Office:
44 20.8906.6793 E-mail: sales@intellicate.com
MENU
Home
software
Schedule24 Scheduler
Schedule24 Resource Manager
Schedule24 Excel Add-in
Schedule24 Duty Management
purchase
support
Submit Ticket
View Tickets
Knowledge Base
Consulting
company
contacts
our capabilities:
employee scheduling
Solutions
start now
our solutions:
excel shift schedule
success
learn more
our capabilities:
premium
support
start now
our capabilities:
first-class
services
start now
Schedule24
Scheduler
Create and manage employee schedules. Enables your staff to get all the information they need for successful scheduling.
more info
Schedule24
Resource Manager
Gives you more control over your employee schedules, handles greater complexity and advanced shift automation.
more info
Schedule24
Excel Add-In
Advanced shift scheduler, automatically create custom shift patterns within Microsoft Excel.
more info
Schedule24
Duty Management
Built to a police duty management specification incorporating court availability and reporting procedures.
more info
Welcome
Intellicate
is a leading developer of employee scheduling software. Employee scheduling tools that were once only available to large organizations are now easily affordable and accessible for medium and small businesses. Our unique approach of targeted
workforce solutions will enable you to efficiently schedule and coordinate staff resources
effectively!
The principles of
employee scheduling are universal, whether
a busy hospital with dozens of doctors and nurses, running a small business, managing passengers and freight
in the busiest shipping lane in the world, or coordinating 24/7 policing. Schedule24 workflow supports these time proven principles enabling you to 'tailor'
employee schedules to significantly boost your bottom line.
What We Do
We understand the complex factors involved in deploying staff in the 24/7
or extended
hours workplace.
We help business managers understand what it means to adopt innovative approaches to staff working arrangements; and avoid expensive short term staffing solutions caused by lack of planning. This includes knowing where savings can be made without impacting delivery or production schedules. Anyone can embark on a cost cutting strategy that 'cripples' business performance.
We enable business managers to
deploy employee scheduling software strategically, enabling team leaders and line managers to consistently deliver an effective team tuned to
business goals. This includes 'deep' knowledge transfer about the latest techniques in computerized employee scheduling.
We offer comprehensive and pragmatic 24/7 support to ensure business managers maximize their investment in our solutions. You don't need a Fortune 500 budget to experience big time and cost savings.
Many of our clients start reaping the returns on their investment within just a few days of implementation.
customer testimonials:
“I evaluated Schedule24 Resource Manager a while ago to use as part of a solution for a client. Although there was several solutions out there that did a similar job, few could keep up with Schedule 24 because of the complexity of our resource management. Not only was the product rich in functionality, but the documentation was complete, the support swift and the willingness of the the team to listen to you and come up with ideas impressed me. Great product - does what it said it will do!”
— Kobus Meyer, Project Manager @ Visa
“In our 24/7 Dover port operation, working several different shift patterns, our rosters had become increasingly difficult to manage as we had grown. With Schedule24 we were able to consolidate all our rosters into one easily managed file, immediately freeing up significant resource. Schedule24’s excellent functionality and ease of use allowed us to ensure we had appropriate staffing levels and skills in place at all times and made any adjustments to work patterns very easy. An excellent product, well-supported. ”
— John Morrissey, Port Operations Manager @ MyFerryLink
“I know this product since about 12 years. It is growing up to a great and excellent product. Very helpfull to manage our staff and customer wishes. Organizing, managing HR, and manage our own resources. I recommend that product 100%.”
— Marco Sciarini, Vice President @ AIS
“Easy to manage all staff shifts and excellent management reports. ”
— Ali Abdülhamit Cetrefli, General Manager @ Isimtescil internet Teknolojileri
“We had schedule24 installed at the Port of Tilbury Police for our duty system approximately 7 years ago.
Since then, the staff and I have found it to be very user friendly. Any changes to the shifts or additional information for particular officers can be updated in house instantly. Intellicate team provide an excellent back up service and are always at the end of the phone to give advice or help with any query. I would strongly recommend Schedule24 to any business, large or small. It is an integral part of our working day and I wouldn’t be without it.”
— Jane Martin @ Port of Tilbury Police
Latest News:
Jul 14, 2014
Flexible working comes into law
The right to flexible working has been extended in law to be a fundamental and universal right for UK employees.Read More
May 22, 2014
Supermarket shifts ’cause anxiety and insecurity’
In a recent study by Alex Wood and Brendan Burchell from the department of sociology at Cambridge delivers more evidenceRead More
Feb 13, 2014
Business Spreadsheets
We would like to welcome Business Spreadsheets authorized distributor for Schedule24 Excel Add-in. Read More
Newsletter
subscribe
home|
software|
purchase|
support|
company|
contacts
Copyright © 2000-2016
Intellicate Ltd. All rights reserved.
|
Privacy Policy
|
RSS
