Intern Aware
Take Action
Take Action
Report an Unpaid Internship
Unpaid Internship Stories
Endorse Intern Aware
About Us
About Us
Media Resources
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies Policy
News
Learn More
Learn More
Why Unpaid Internships Matter
The Law and Internships
Making Internships Work For You
Best Practice for Business
Interns in the Voluntary Sector
Why we need a four week limit
Resources
FAQs
Making internships work for you
Check out our guide to learn about how internships work and what a good internship looks like Read more
MPs support four week limitMPs strongly backed Conservative Alec Shelbrooke's motion to ban unpaid internships last year. We are calling on all political parties to get behind it.Read more
Why unpaid internships matter Unpaid internships are damaging social mobility and excluding young people from the opportunities they deserve. Click below to learn the facts Read more
Unpaid internships are bad for societyUnpaid internships are essential, expensive and exclusive. We believe that only by paying interns can all young people be given a fair chance.Read more
Are you an employer?Good businesses know that it makes business sense to pay interns. Take a look at how and why hereRead more
Endorse Intern Aware
Optional email code
Send me email updates
Text me updates
My company/organisation is making the endorsement
Report an Unpaid Internship
Unpaid Internship Stories
About Us
Latest story from the Intern Aware community
read them all
Alexander says:
"As a young person working in the field of public relations, I was extremely lucky to get to where I am without needing to undertake..."
read more
Latest news
11 infographics that explain why we need to end unpaid internships
We've pulled together the most important statistics to explain why interns should be getting paid for their work. (Credit to Lindsay Noble for her fantastic work on these!)
read more
0
Four week limit – all you need to know about the proposal to end unpaid internships
What is the 4 week limit?
The four week limit is a slight tweak to the current law aimed at ending all long term unpaid internships.
read more
0
Unpaid internships take the stage in the General Election
Unpaid internships are likely to be a major election issue for young people who find themselves stuck in a catch 22 situation - where they are unable to get a job because they haven’t got experience, and unable to get experience because they can’t afford to work for free.
read more
0
We’ve made waves in:
© Copyright 2014
connect
Sign in with Facebook, Twitter or email.
Created by cStreet Campaigns with NationBuilder
