Lark Recruitment | 01284 749285
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Home
Our Specialism
Candidates
about
Get in touch
Upload your CV
Let us call you back
About Lark.
Lark Recruitment is a specialist HR consultancy based in and focused on East Anglia.
Lark are dedicated to the HR sector and have extensive experience of providing our customers with permanent, interim, contract and temporary placements.
We recruit for roles covering the full spectrum of Human Resources - both generalist and specialist.
Our consultants bring years of high quality East Anglian experience to the recruitment process and can deliver results across and beyond Cambridgeshire, Essex, Hertfordshire, Norfolk and Suffolk.
We have successfully placed candidates into jobs across a diverse industry base including:
• Accountancy  • Aerospace  • Agency  • Automotive  • Biotech  • Charity  • Chemical  • Construction
• Consultancy  • Distribution  • Education  • Electronics  • Energy  • Engineering  • Entertainment  • Environmental
• Financial services  • Food processing  • FMCG  • Healthcare  • Hospitality  • Insurance  • Legal  • Leisure
• Marketing  • Manufacturing  • Media  • New Media  • NHS  • Not For Profit  • Packaging  • Pharmaceutical
• Printing  • Public Sector  • Publishing  • Research  • Retail  • Scientific  • Technology  • Telecommunications
• Transport  • Utilities
“In a time when the employment market for senior HR professionals is a tough place for candidates, Lark really excelled and set themselves apart from any other recruitment consultant I have met. For a start they demonstrated a professional respect and understanding of HR and the role it plays within organisations. That respect extended to me as a person, but in a manner that was honest & constructive, yet optimistic. They, without fail, did what they said they would do, always returned calls quickly and I felt were as much working to place me as they were for the client.” - Candidate
Talk to us now: 01284 987456 or let us call you back
Business Address Manchester House, 113 Northgate Street, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP33 1HP.
Google Map
© Copyright Lark Recruitment 2008 - 2017 All rights reserved. Privacy Policy
