Power Resourcing | Specialists in Graduate recruitment
Home
About Us
Employers
Graduates
Jobs
News
Contact
Select Page
Need help with that?
Power Resourcing specialises in Graduate recruitment.
We can help
Power Resourcing is a graduate resourcing business based in Cambridge. We work with employers across a range of industry sectors to help them find talented and enthusiastic graduates that fit with their organisations ethos, and work with graduates from a range of study disciplines to help them find rewarding and fulfilling jobs and career opportunities.
Our graduates come from a range of universities and from study disciplines as diverse as marketing, economics, business, law, finance, sustainable development, information technology, innovation, languages, publishing, environmental science, life sciences, engineering and graphic design. They range from recent graduates to those with several years experience behind them.
We work with employers across a range of industry sectors, ranging from small businesses through to large international operations, and recruit for vacancies spanning a range of job functions.
To find out more about the services we offer and how we can help you find the right talent or the right job, please email info@powerresourcing.co.uk
Graduates
Get Started
Recruiting?
Get Started
What our customers say
“The professional service we received from Power Resourcing was extremely efficient allowing us to fill the placement quickly.”
Employer
“Alison at Power Resourcing has gone above and beyond in helping secure a graduate job to begin my career.”
Graduate
“We would have no hesitation in recommending Power Resourcing for their excellent and professional service.”
Employer
Follow
Twitter
LinkedIn
Home     About Us     Employers     Graduates     Jobs     News

St John’s Innovation Centre, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WS

info@powerresourcing.co.uk

(01223) 655182
© 2017 Power Resourcing Ltd. Company number: 7293998. Registered in England and Wales.
