Warwick Institute for Employment Research
Skip to main content
Text only
Sign in
Study
Research
Business
Alumni
News
Global
Search
Warwick Institute for Employment Research
About IER
People
IER staff list
PhD students
Associate Fellows
Visiting Professors
Honorary Professors
Previous IER staff
Research
Publications
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
News and blogs
Impact and public engagement
PhD and Advanced Study
PhD in Employment Research
Early Career Researchers
Research tools
WF6
WF 2014-2024 sub-regional
Warwick Institute for Employment Research
Growth Sectors: Data Analysis on Employment Change, Wages and Poverty
A study by Anne Green, Neil Lee (LSE) and Paul Sissons (Coventry University) demonstrates that the sector which an individual works in has a significant impact on their pay, but that the level of local demand for labour is also important. The report is an output from an ESRC-funded project on ‘Harnessing Growth Sectors for Poverty Reduction’. It highlights that low pay is a key feature of the accommodation/food services, residential care, wholesale/retail, and the agriculture, forestry and fishing sectors. Three of these sectors (accommodation / food services, residential care, wholesale and retail) are likely to have the highest employment demand in the medium term. Hence policies are needed which focus on upgrading skills and developing career in order to help reduce low pay and in-work poverty. Find out more in the Growth Sectors report.
WarwickIER
Follow
IER newsletter
Keep up to date with IER research, events and publications by signing up to our monthly e-newsletter.
See our current and previous versions of the newsletter.
Subscribe to the IER monthly e-newsletter
More news from IER
15
research projects underway at IER
Longitudinal Study of Learners in Vocational Education
The Director of IER, Chris Warhurst, has been invited to address the annual Ofqual Conference on 28 February. This year’s conference focuses on vocational and technical education. Chris will talk about the first findings and policy implications from IER’s new VETrack tracking study of further education students and apprentices funded by the Edge Foundation. The Wave 1 report is now available.
Making Jobs Better
Co-edited by IER Director Chris Warhurst, a special issue of Work and Occupations has just been published on ‘Making Jobs Better’. It examines the different actors involved in trying to improve job quality – firms, governments, trade unions and community organisations.
Contact us
Warwick Institute for Employment Research
University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3284
Email: ier at warwick dot ac dot uk
LinkedIn Twitter
Staff IntranetSitemap
Page contact: Catherine Vassallo
Last revised: Mon 6 Feb 2017
Powered by Sitebuilder
© MMXVII
Terms
Privacy
Cookies
Accessibility
