The Farming Community Network - Home
Donate online
Search
Home
HELP
For an overview of how we can help click here
Business
Family
Health
Farm issues
Events & News
Volunteering
Support FCN
About FCN
About The Farming Community Network
Trustees
Your local FCN groups
Office staff
Testimonials
Press releases
Funding breakdown
Resources
Contact
You are here:
Home
Can we HELP you or someone you know?
FCN has strong and longstanding links with the farming community and agriculture throughout England and Wales. Our volunteers are all farmers or are associated with farming and understand the problems facing agriculture today. At FCN we understand how interconnected the farm business and household are and have helped thousands of farmers with problems or issues in the following areas:
HELP with business issues
HELP with family issues
HELP with health issues
HELP with farm issues
About The Farming Community Network
FCN strives to make itself known to any and all in the farming community who might one day need them or who might like to help and support the charity.  FCN has a clear Christian ethos in everything it does. All its services are made available to those in need from all faiths or none in a supportive, non-judgmental manner.
Click to find out more
Supporting the people who care for the countryside
News & Events
Focussed Farmers - Video 9 - Flexing Your Brain…Taking Control
Read more →
Focussed Farmers - Video 8 - The Flexible Brain
Read more →
Go to the News & Events page
Support FCN's work
There are lots of great ways to raise funds for the work of FCN.
We are grateful to all who raise funds or donate in any way. Like all charities we need to plan for the future and welcome a commitment upon which we can rely to help the farmers of the future. To find out more about how you can help, click the appropriate button below.
Click to find out more
Volunteering for FCN
It's easy to get involved. You can volunteer in many different ways:
Become a caseworker
Become a Helpline volunteer taking calls in confidence
Provide administrative support in your area with a local FCN group
Become a fundraiser for a local FCN group and support their efforts
Organise local promotion and publicity for FCN in a local group
Click to find out more
Home
Help
Events
Volunteering
Support the work of FCN
About FCN
Resources
Contact
Volunteers Area
© FCN 2013
Registered Charity No.1095919 Acknowledgements | Webdesign: TEKOA Creative
