British Institute of Energy Economics | BIEE
Contact Us
News
Sign in
BIEE | British Institute of Energy Economics
Home
Membership
Meetings
Conferences
Downloads
Videos
About Us
For 30 years BIEE has provided a focal point for informed discussion and debate of key energy issues in the UK.
Forthcoming events
1 Mar, 2017
The Hendry Review of Tidal Lagoon Energy
Charles Hendry will be speaking about his recently published review of tidal lagoons, commissioned by Energy Secretary Amber Rudd in May 2016.
Charles has looked at how tidal lagoons would help meet our energy priorities – security of supply, decarbonisation, UK economic opportunities/jobs and affordability.
Venue:Imperial College
Business School, London SW7 2AZSpeaker(s):Prof. Charles Hendry
The BIEE aims to encourage the exchange of ideas and information between energy professionals from different disciplines and sectors of the industry and to promote a responsible, evidence based approach to the challenges of energy policy and tackling climate change.
We have a diverse membership that cuts across traditional industry sectors with members drawn from academia, government, industry and finance.
BIEE is impartial, globally informed, and focuses on energy economics and policy.
Our members benefit from meetings, conferences and seminars throughout the year, access to latest papers, presentations  and videos of our events, plus a unique network of valuable contacts in academia, industry, finance and the public sector.
BIEE membership is available for companies, individuals and students and can be combined with membership of the IAEE
Latest News Topics
Greg Clark to give fourth ‘Future of Energy’ lecture
We are delighted to announce that
the speaker for our
fourth ‘Future of Energy’
lecture will be Greg Clark,
Secretary of State for Business Energy and Industrial Affairs.
An economist by background,
Greg was appointed
Secretary of State for
the newly created Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy in July 2016.
In a previous role as Shadow Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change 2008 – 2010,
Greg was responsible for two landmark policy papers in Energy and Climate Change policy: “The Low Carbon Economy” and “Rebuilding Security”, which set out how a Conservative Government will make Britain a leading player in the low carbon economy.
Vernon Press : Call for book reviewers
Do you enjoy reading books in economics, social science, humanities? Join
the Vernon Press community of book reviewers. To join you must be an expert in one of the areas they
publish
and be prepared to review at least one book every two years.
The Hendry Review of Tidal Lagoon Energy
Charles Hendry’s
recently published review of tidal lagoons was commissioned by Energy Secretary Amber Rudd in May 2016.
In his review Charles has looked at how tidal lagoons would help meet our energy priorities – security of supply, decarbonisation, UK economic opportunities/jobs and affordability.
Corporate Members
Institutional Members
BEIS
BIS
Cambridge Econometrics
Energy UK
IPA Advisory
KPMG
Limejump
NERA
Oil & Gas UK
SPRU
The Committee on Climate Change
Vivid Economics
Memberships
Become a member
For priority access to our events & gain access to our downloadable resources
Email updates
Sign up
To receive email updates about our forthcoming events and news please sign up here.
Why attend a BIEE Conference?
Explore this site
Home
About Us
Meetings
Videos
Contact Us
Email: admin@biee.org
Tel: 01296 747 916
Fax: 01296 747916
Copyright © 2005-2016 British Institute of Energy Economics All rights reserved.
Privacy | XML Sitemap
Web Design Oxford
