Woodfuel in England (England)
Skip banner navigation | Skip all navigation
Forestry Commission England
Menu
Benefits of woodfuel Woodland Owners - Grants and Support Woodfuel Supply Chain - Grants and Support Woodfuel Sector Explained Using Woodfuel Boilers Using Woodfuel Stoves The Resource - Trees, Woods and Forests
Government Woodfuel Policy
Woodfuel – Energy that grows on Trees
Share
Woodfuel Implementation Plan 2011 - 2014 The Woodfuel Implementation Plan outlines how the Forestry Commission will:
increase wood supply by bringing more privately owned woodlands into active management encourage the use of woodfuel in high quality, efficient wood heat systems help rural based businesses increase their capacity to develop a robust woodfuel industry provide grants aimed at supporting the development of access tracks and roads to help foresters bring thinnings to the market
Expert advice on the plan and woodfuel will be available on the stand from Forestry Commission England and the Biomass Energy Centre. Woodfuel Woodfuel can be burned to generate heat or electricity and is an important part of the UK’s renewable energy supply. Fuel can be produced from thinnings taken from woodlands and forests, wood recovered from the waste stream and from crops like short rotation coppice. It is a sustainable, low carbon, source of energy that is produced from managed woods, where felled trees are replanted. Woodfuel works best on a sub-national scale – using locally grown fuel in efficient, modern boilers as a clean way to provide heat for business and community buildings, saving money and CO2. Forestry Commission England has been involved with the developing woodfuel supply chain for a number of years. The implementation plan describes what actions will be taken to further support and consolidate the sector over the period 2011 - 2014.
Are you the owner of a woodland? Forestry Commission woodland officers can provide you with information on possible grant funding available, regulations and opportunities for management on your property? Find out more about grants and support for woodland owners.
Do you want to install a woodfuel stove or boiler? Woodfuel is an environmentally and economically sound source of renewable heat. A list of suppliers and installers and information on any grant assistance is available. Find out more about using woodfuel boilers.
View the Carbon Trust guide on boiler installation.
Are you looking for a woodfuel supplier? The biomass energy centre website shows an interactive map of wood fuel suppliers. View the Biomass Energy Centre woodfuel suppliers interactive map.
Do you currently supply woodfuel? The Forestry Commission is keen to work with suppliers of wood fuel to support this sector as it responds to meet the growing demand for logs, chips and pellets. The Confor Woodfuel Suppliers Group provides information on support available including market information, funding and networking opportunities.
Find out more about the woodfuel network.
Back to top
Last updated: 14th September 2016
What's of interest
Woodfuel Implementation Plan (2MB | PDF)
Grants for Woodfuel production (1 MB | PDF)
Renewable Heat Incentive
Woodfuel FAQ's
UK Renewable Energy Strategy
Related pages
Community Biomass GuideNorth EastNorth WestYorkshire and The HumberEast MidlandsWest MidlandsEast of EnglandSouth EastSouth WestWoodfuel Woodland Improvement Grant
Useful sitesRenewable Energy AssociationCarbon TrustEnvironmental Protection UKRDPE NetworkGreenbuild ExpoCPETDECC
forestry.commission.england
@ForestryCommEng
Corporate
About us
Our commissioners and staff, how we work, what we do, Health & Safety
Contact us
Where to find us, how to get in touch
Jobs
Working for us, vacancies, volunteering, career opportunities
Buying and selling
Timber sales, tenders, forest gifts, clothes and accessories, how to sell to us
Modern Slavery – Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Resources
News
New stories and announcements, media contacts
Library
Publications and images
Datasets
Statistics and economic research, National Forest Inventory, GIS data download, register of approved basic material
Topics
Pests and diseases
Top threats, plant health, timber import and export, biosecurity
Sustainable forestry
UK Forestry standard, climate change, Woodland Carbon Code
Research into forestry
Forestry science and innovation strategy, current programmes
Tree name trail
Follow our tree identification guide
Organisation
Forestry Commission ScotlandForestry in WalesForest Research agency
Crown copyright
Privacy and cookie policy
Disclaimers
About this website
