Home - Galson Sciences
Work Areas
Radioactive Waste Management
Environmental Risk and Impact Assessment
Criticality Safety Studies
Disposability Assessment
Monitoring Programmes
Decommissioning Option / BAT Studies
Nuclear Regulation
Geoscientific Investigations and Research
Nuclear Safety Studies
Stakeholder Engagement
Clients
News
Staff
Consultant Staff and Management
Associates
Administrative Staff
Recruitment
Contact
Menu
Currently recruiting - please visit our Recruitment page
Providing a range of
Nuclear Decommissioning
and Radioactive Waste Management Services
Radioactive Waste Management GSL undertakes strategic analysis, inventory audits, and option studies and provides advice on all aspects of radioactive waste conditioning, packaging, transport, storage and disposal.
Environmental Risk and Impact Assessment GSL is at the forefront of thinking on safety and risk assessment and the development of Environmental Safety Cases to support decommissioning and the or licensing of radioactive waste disposal facilities.
Criticality Safety Studies GSL has developed a track record in criticality safety assessment covering the transport and disposal of radioactive materials.  We are active members of the UK Working Party on Criticality.
Disposability Assessment GSL have experience in Disposability Assessment for existing wastes and new build reactor designs.
Monitoring Programmes GSL staff have been responsible for conducting a range of studies on monitoring plans and programmes for both surface and underground (geologic) radioactive waste disposal facilities.
Decommissioning Option / BAT Studies GSL has carried out a range of decision analysis and options studies and Best Available Technique / Best Practicable Means assessments for nuclear decommissioning and waste management programmes.
Nuclear Regulation Galson Sciences has undertaken analyses of a wide range of national and international practices, policies, technology and experience in the regulation of safety and the management of environmental risks for the nuclear and radioactive waste management sectors.
Geoscientific Investigations and Research Many GSL staff have a background in the earth sciences and joined the company from the academic research environment.  GSL has coordinated and been involved in many geoscientific investigations at nuclear sites worldwide and in European geoscience research projects.
Stakeholder Engagement GSL is internationally recognised for its knowledge and practical experience in stakeholder consultation in both the nuclear and non-nuclear sectors, particularly for potentially contentious developments.
Nuclear Safety Studies GSL has undertaken an extensive range of studies on nuclear safety.  We periodically analyse incidents and events at Nuclear Power Plants, reprocessing facilities and other European fuel cycle facilities.
The Latest News
16
Dec
2016
Season’s Greetings from everyone at Galson Sciences Ltd
in News
Season’s Greetings from everyone at Galson Sciences Ltd
30
Apr
2016
Galson Sciences Ltd Gains Government Cyber Essentials Certification
in News
Galson Sciences Ltd (GSL) has gained the Government Cyber Essentials certification.  The Cyber Essentials Scheme is part of the...
04
Aug
2015
POPLU staff Exchange
in News
As part of the DOPAS integration the POPLU staff exchange provide useful information both for visitors and hosts DOPAS...
02
Feb
2015
Community Representation Working Group News
in News
GSL Senior Consultant Phil Richardson has been invited to be a member of the Community Representation Working Group (CRWG)...
Galson Sciences Limited (GSL) was founded in 1992 and is based in Oakham (UK). We provide consultancy and research services to nuclear sector clients worldwide.
Quick LinksHome
Work Areas
Clients
Contact
Contact Info
Contact Us
01572 770649
01572 770650
5 Grosvenor House, Melton Road, Oakham, Rutland, LE15 6AX, UK
Designed by Sincordia
© Galson Sciences Ltd 2016. All rights reserved
