Welcome to MCT | Marine Current Turbines
Skip to main content
Marine Current Turbines
Tel: +44 (0)7471 773402
Home
About UsWho We Are
Vacancies
Tidal Energy
SeaGen TechnologyEnergy Capture
Environmental Impact
Grid Connection
O&M
Performance
Testing
Technology DevelopmentSeaGen S
SeaGen U
Projects
Media & NewsNews
Media
Contact
01
PIONEERS OFTIDAL ENERGY
MCT designed, built and deployed the world’s first commercial tidal stream power station.
02
STRONG
BACKING
MCT is now part of Atlantis Resources Ltd, a recognised global leader in the tidal power sector
03
EXTENSIVELY
TESTED
The SeaGen technology was deployed in 2008, has undergone extensive testing, and has generated over 3GWh.
04
MAINTAINABLE
TECHNOLOGY
The majority of maintenance can be carried out on-site, minimising O&M costs and maximising availability.
05
FULLY GRID
COMPLIANT
SeaGen arrays do not require offshore substations, and devices can be linked together.
06
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
Tidal energy technology can be commercially viable and environmentally sustainable.
07
PLENTY OF
OPPORTUNITY
Tidal stream energy capacity could exceed 120GW globally.
Welcome to MCT
Marine Current Turbines Ltd (MCT) has a demonstrated pedigree of pioneering the development of tidal stream generation technology for over 20 years. Now wholly owned by Atlantis Resources MCT is poised to become the World’s leading OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) of commercial scale tidal stream technology, dedicated to research, design, manufacture and support of tidal stream energy generating systems.
MCT has proven that the technology is scalable, commercially viable and an environmentally sustainable solution to zero carbon energy generation. The technology is now ready for deployment in commercial scale tidal energy projects.
MCT is now focused on the development of the first tidal array projects in the UK on carefully selected sites that will deliver a good commercial return for investors.
Marine Current Turbines Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 02395158 Registered office: 1st floor, 40 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7NH
