The Bioeconomy Consultants - NNFCC
Toggle navigation
NNFCC - The Bioeconomy Consultants
Log in
Publications Store
Contact Us
Company
Services
Expertise
Projects
Journal
Feedstock
Crops, wood and waste are the building blocks of the bioeconomy. Understanding how to use these vital resources more efficiently and sustainably within such a diverse market is essential as we try to balance the need for food, feed, energy, fuel and materials. Our cross-sector knowledge is valuable in identifying the most suitable, sustainable and secure sources available.
Find out more
Bioenergy
Bioenergy is the conversion of biomass to energy via a solid, liquid or gaseous fuel. Ambitious renewable energy and carbon targets to 2020 and beyond are driving demand for bioenergy as a reliable and stable source of renewable heat and electricity at industrial and domestic scales. Complying with complex policies and sustainability criteria is fundamental to success.
Find out more
Biobased products
The global marketplace for biobased chemicals and polymers is increasing rapidly and there is intense activity from renewable feedstock suppliers, manufacturers, brand owners and retailers all looking to secure their positions in this key market. Our market awareness is supporting accelerated development of economic routes to both conventional and novel biobased materials.
Find out more
Biorefining
Biorefining is the sustainable processing of biomass into a spectrum of marketable products (food, feed, fuels, chemicals, heat and power); a concept fundamental to our role working across the bioeconomy. Biorefinieries provide a means by which renewable materials can be integrated and produced in bulk, allowing the large-scale replacement of fossil-fuels and materials.
Find out more
Biofuels
Biofuels are liquid or gaseous fuels derived from biomass. More sustainable processes and feedstocks are resulting in biofuels which further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and minimise the impact they have on land use. Our leading position in this sector is widely respected and influential with both policy makers and commercial developers.
Find out more
Biogas
Biogas from biological or thermo-chemical conversion can be used to generate heat, power or transport fuels. The market is dynamic and the technology is complex, but the potential is significant. A complex matrix of policies and regulations are prevalent in this sector. We help navigate the complexities and have developed a number of bespoke products and packages for this sector.
Find out more
We collate and publish industry news in the areas of
feedstocks, bioenergy, biofuels, biorefineries and biobased products.
News
We work on large collaborative projects supporting strategic and developmental activities, often requiring direct business engagement, funded by the public sector and European funding schemes.
Projects
Our publication store contains a wide range of technical reports, briefing factsheets and market reviews which can be accessed through our information services subscription or can be purchased individually.
Publications
We offer ​exciting and challenging careers for people who are passionate about the future and are committed to success. Have you got what it takes to be part of the team?
Careers
We are delighted to be working together with experienced communication, technology, feedstock and LCA advisors, allowing us to offer a fully comprehensive service to our clients.
Partners
We provide strategic business consultancy; analysing, explaining and de-risking the bioeconomy for our clients. We are driven by our belief that the bioeconomy will create sustainable business opportunities and deliver wide ranging societal benefits.
Company
Case Studies
Carbon Calculation for Bioenergy
NNFCC has performed carbon calculation services for clients, to ensure their bioenergy solutions meet sustainability criteria.
Bioenergy Options Appraisal for UK University
Review of the most appropriate bioenergy options for the site
Health supplement market landscape
Insight into the potential market for a new bio-based product.
Biohorizons
Coordination and policy analysis of a bioeconomy survey for Climate-KIC.
Industrial Biotechnology Capability Assessment
Assessment of UK pilot equipment capacity for industrial biotechnology process scale up.
Bio-ethanol from waste
Evaluation of the potential to supply residual biomass to ethanol producers.
Bio Base NWE
Supporting SME innovation within North West Europe’s bioeconomy
Energetic Algae
Assessment of the potential for algae based bioenergy in North West Europe.
About Us
At NNFCC we believe in a future where biobased technologies are a key component of the low carbon economy, creating sustainable business opportunities and providing wide ranging societal benefits.
We provide strategic business consultancy; analysing, explaining and de-risking the bioeconomy for our clients.
We are driven by our belief that the bioeconomy will create sustainable business opportunities and deliver wide ranging societal benefits.
We have successfully delivered projects to a wide range of clients including technology developers, investors, power companies, manufacturers, brand owners, Governments and Universities.
Our mission is simple - to provide clients with a strategic view of feedstock, technology, policy and market development across the bioeconomy, enabling them to make informed business decisions and develop sustainable business strategies.
Latest News
Feed-In-Tariff Reforms: what is the future for AD?17/02/2017
Boost for Biobased Products and Anaerobic Digestion following European Committee Vote15/02/2017
European Circular Economy Action Plan - How fared its first year?08/02/2017
More news
Events
08
03
Technology Transfer in Bioeconomy WorkshopDüsseldorf, Germany
14
03
Optimising your AD PlantSelby, United Kingdom
23
03
ORG Conference 2017Rocester, United Kingdom
More events
Quick links
Homepage
Subscription Packages
Publications
Website Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Address
NNFCC, Biocentre,
York Science Park,
Innovation Way,
York, YO10 5DG
Tel: +44 1904 435182
Fax: +44 1904 435345
Join our mailing list
Join here
Subscribe
Or press Escape to exit
