Home | National Nuclear Laboratory
Share this page
About Us
Mission and Values
Governance
Corporate Responsibility
Our People
Our Policies
Our History
Commercial Services
Measurement and Analysis
Waste Management Technology
Safety Management
Procurement
Environmental Services
Fuel and Radioisotope Technology
Asset Care
Access to Facilities
Waste and Residue Processing
Spent Fuel Technology
Security
Post Irradiation Examination
Suppliers
Overview
Standards
Contact details
Opportunities
Science & Technology
Projects
NNL R&D
University Links
Position Papers
UK R&D Map
Scientific Journal
Technical Conference
National Nuclear User Facility
RCNDE
BEST Award
NDA PhD Bursary Call 2017
Jules Horowitz Reactor
Our Facilities
News & Media Centre
Latest News
Publications
Images
Media Contacts
Innovate
Case Studies
News Archive
Careers
Working at NNL
Why Join Us
What We're Looking For
Our Application Process
Apprenticeships at NNL
Work Experience Placements
Recruitment Agencies
Graduates and Undergraduates
Current Vacancies
Contact Us
Radiological Assessment
Read More
Take a Tour Around NNL
Read More
Measurement and Analysis Services
Read More
Welcome
We play a key role in the UK and global nuclear industry. That means reducing the cost of clean-up and decommissioning, maintaining critical skills and attracting talented new people to the industry. We're the only UK organisation with the skills, facilities and expertise to provide technical support to all aspects of the nuclear industry. What's more, we pride ourselves on offering quality, value and service to every one of our customers.
News
Latest RCNDE Newsletter available
The Research Centre for Non-Destructive Evaluation (RCNDE) was formed in 2003. It is an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) sponsored col... Read More
Sellafield Ltd and the National Nuclear Laboratory Agree to Collaborate in the National Interest
Tony Fountain, Chairman of Sellafield Ltd, and Sir Andrew Mathews, Chairman of the National Nuclear Laboratory Ltd (NNL), have signed a Collaboration Agreement.... Read More
Latest Tweets
Want to find out more about #nuclear power? Check out these papers from the UK National Nuclear Laboratory nnl.co.uk/science-techno…
Retweeted by @UKNNL
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
Come and hear @UKNNL's Ozma Taylor discussing the int'l side of project management at @CumbriaUni next week - apm.org.uk/event/think-gl…
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
Procurement >
Procurement
If you’re interested in becoming a supplier to NNL take a look at our Procurement section where you can learn everything you need to know about working with us, from our standards and who you’ll need to contact to the latest contract opportunities available. Click to find out more >
Asset Care >
Asset Care
As highly respected advisors to the UK Government and wider nuclear industry, our services are of the highest quality and within Asset Care we cover everything from impact and structural modelling, remote engineering and mobile microdrilling, to decommissioning, design, waste retrieval, technical consultancy and security. Click to find out more >
Security >
Security
Here at NNL our expert teams deliver a wide range of nuclear security, safeguards and non-proliferation (NSSNP). The team has an extensive track record in delivering solutions for wide range of customers, offering everything from direct advice and support on security standards; to ensuring Security compliance for facilities and offices on non-nuclear licensed sites, such as contractor offices and universities. Click to find out more >
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Freedom of Information
Accessibility
Employee Area
Modern Slavery Act Statement
