NuLeAF
NuLeaf
Nuclear Legacy Advisory Forum
About us
Background
Constitution
Membership
Service Plan
Working with NNLAG and protocol
Financial data
Website terms & conditions
Our work
NDA Strategy and Operations
Low Level Waste Strategy
Siting a Geological Disposal Facility
Legacy management implications of potential new build
Submarine Dismantling Project
Community Funds & Socio-Economic Support
Major Accidents
Events and Meetings
Diary
Steering Group
Radioactive Waste Planning Group
Seminars
LGA conference
Document library
Abbreviations and acronyms
Articles and Press Releases
Briefing Papers
Case Studies, Commissioned Work & Planning Reports
Consultation Responses
E-bulletins
European Projects
Glossary
Industry Projects
LGA Reports
NuLeAF/NDA engagement meetings
Policy Statements
Radioactive Waste Planning Group
Seminar reports and presentations
Steering Group papers & minutes
Useful links
Welcome to the NuLeAF website
Here you will find information about NuLeAF policy and activities. NuLeAF seeks to build capacity within local government to engage effectively with nuclear legacy management and works to represent the views of member local authorities to national bodies.
What’s new on the website
Click on the links below to go to the latest items posted on our website.
Response to consultation by NDA, Draft Business Plan 2017-20 and Sizewell C consultation
Papers and presentations for the RWPG meeting held on 24 January, plus the note of the meeting held on 19 October 2016
Minutes of the Steering Group meeting held on 7 September, and the presentations to the Steering Group meeting on 7 December by Peter Haslam (NIA) and Angela Vincent and Ian Warner (Magnox)
Papers for the Steering Group meeting on 7 December
Papers for the RWPG meeting on 19 October and the presentation by Shelly Mobbs on Administrative Controls, plus the Note of the Meeting held on 20 July 2016
Presentation by Bill Hamilton, NDA on socio-economics and stakeholder engagement
Meeting dates for 2017
NuLeAF Steering Group meeting
The next meeting of NuLeAF's Steering Group will take place 11.00 - 15.00 on 15 March, 2017 at Manchester Town Hall.
The meeting will consider papers on the Geological Disposal Facility, updates on developments in NDA Strategy and Operation and on national developments in radioactive waste management.
The afternoon presentation will be given by EDF on their decommissioning plans.
If you would like further information on the meeting please contact the secretariat.
Explanatory videos from RWM
RWM has produced two short videos explaining their work on the Geological Disposal Facility. You can access them here.
Nuclear Legacy Advisory Forum
c/o Suffolk County Council
Endeavour House, 8 Russell Road, Ipswich, Suffolk IP1 2BX
Tel: +44 (0)1473 264833
Email: catherine.draper@nuleaf.org.uk
NuLeAF Cookies Policy
Our Website uses cookies to improve your experience.
Please visit our Home page for more information about cookies and how we use them. Close
