Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking on a Commercial Scale
+1(0800) 699-7071
sales@reaf.org.uk
Login / Sign Up
Toggle navigation
Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking
Home
About us
Renewable energy
Solar systems
Fracking
Commercial energy
Environment
Contact us
Want to know what's new
Commercial Solar Systems and How They Can Benefit You
Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking on a Commercial Scale
The Dangers of Fracking
The extensive use of fracking in the US, where it has
revolutionised the energy industry, has prompted environmental concerns.
Fracking uses huge amounts of water, which must be
transported to the fracking site, at significant environmental cost.
Environmentalists say potentially carcinogenic chemicals
used may escape and contaminate groundwater around the fracking site. The
industry suggests pollution incidents are the results of bad practice, rather
than an inherently risky technique.
There are also worries that the fracking process can cause
small earth tremors.
What Is It?
Fracking is the process of drilling down into the earth
before a high-pressure water mixture is directed at the rock to release the gas
inside. Water, sand and chemicals are injected into the rock at high pressure
which allows the gas to flow out to the head of the well.
The process can be carried out vertically or, more commonly,
by drilling horizontally to the rock layer and can create new pathways to
release gas or can be used to extend existing channels.
Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking
There are many alternatives to burning through the scarce
resource of fossil fuels that we have, it's a matter of financing renewable
energy systems that are beneficial to the consumer. The technology available in
the green energy industry is continuously growing and there are more government
incentives coming available for both domestic and commercial size technologies.
Solar Energy
Solar energy can be captured by solar panels. There are 2
main types of solar panels which uses complete different technologies to make
use of the energy from the sun:
Solar Water Heating collectors: These panels
absorbs the energy from the sun and transfer it to heat water.
Photovoltaic or solar electric panels: These
panels transform the solar radiation directly into electricity.
Wind Power
People have used the power of the wind for many years to
produce mechanical power for milling grain and pumping water. In recent times
wind turbine technology has enabled us to harness wind to generate electricity.
The electricity is then exported either to the grid for use locally or to power
a standalone application.
This renewable source of energy has great potential in both
onshore and offshore wind farms. Wind power is one of the cleanest and safest
of all the renewable commercial methods of generating electricity. The UK has
the largest wind resource in the whole of Europe.
Geothermal
Geothermal energy is the heat of the Earth, which can be
tapped into to produce electricity in power plants, and to use its warm water
for industry, agriculture, bathing and cleansing. Although in use worldwide,
its potential as an energy source is not fully utilised, thus geothermal offers
a real option in future environmentally-friendly energy supply.
What we are all about
Read More in reaf.org.uk
New for 2016
Additional information
Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking
- Sign in or sign up
>
Read More
Commercial Solar Systems and How They Can Benefit You
More
Tweet
Quick Links
Subscribe to Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking
Newsletter
Submit
©
Alternatives to Fossil Fuels and Fracking
2016 | www.reaf.org.uk |
Privacy | Terms & Conditions | Cookie Policy | All rights reserved. Contact: solar-pv@reaf.org.uk.
Designed by Webmarketing PLUS |
