World Renewable Energy Congress / Network (WREC/WREN)
| home | contact us |
Home
Congresses
Med Green 2015
Publications
WREC/WREN News
Seminars & Awards
Constitution
Members
Membership
Calendar
Links
How to contact us
World Renewable Energy Congress / Network
c/o Prof. A. Sayigh
P.O.Box 362
Brighton
BN2 1YH
United Kingdom
Telephone:
+44 (0)1273 625643
Fax:
+44 (0)1273 625768
Email:
asayigh@
wrenuk.co.uk
Welcome to the World Renewable Energy Congress - WREN
Introduction to Renewable Energy
Med Green Forum Organisers
The world population in the year 2100 will be in excess of 12 billion. If the current trends in technological progress and innovation continue, the demand for energy then will be five times greater than what it is now. If we continue the policy of using coal, oil and gas at the present rate, then by the year 2020 the global temperature will have increased by two degrees Celsius. We do not need reminding of the adverse effects of this: the increased risk of flooding in lowland areas, the processes of desertification, and changing climate all over the world.
It is a known fact that at the present moment renewable energy contributes only 11% to our primary energy. If we intend to do something about our planet, to safeguard our future and to create a healthy environment for the generations to come, then we must all actively utilize renewable energy in our daily life. It is expected that 60% of all our energy will come from renewable energy by the year 2070. The sooner we employ the attitude that today is better than tomorrow, the greater the opportunity to increase this figure to 80%. The World Solar Summit, World Solar Decade and the World Bank have recently allocated over four billion dollars to projects dealing with renewable energy and the environment. This clearly demonstrates the importance of renewable energy as the new source of power for the future.
About the World Renewable Energy Congress / Network (WREC/WREN)
WREN is a major non-profit organization registered in the United Kingdom with charitable status and affiliated to UNESCO,
the Deputy Director General of which is its honorary President. It has a
Governing Council, an Executive Committee and a Director General. It
maintains links with many United Nations, governmental and
non-governmental organisations.
Established in 1992 during the second World Renewable Energy
Congress in Reading, UK, WREN is one of the most effective
organizations in supporting and enhancing the utilisation and
implementation of renewable energy sources that are both environmentally
safe and economically sustainable. This is done through a worldwide
network of agencies, laboratories, institututions, companies and
individuals, all working together towards the international diffusion of
renewable energy technologies and applications. Representing most
countries in the world, it aims to promote the communication and
technical education of scientists, engineers, technicians and managers
in this field and to address itself to the energy needs of both
developing and developed countries.
Over two billion dollars have now been allocated to projects
dealing with renewable energy and the environment by the World Solar
Summit and World Solar Decade along with the World Bank. This shows that
at last the important message is being heard. The renewable energy
community has exhibited a lot of courage, stamina and willpower,
demonstrating renewable energy to be a viable energy provider. We should
continue at a faster pace.
Global Activities of WREC/WREN
It is Saver and Healthier with Renewable Energy
The global activities of the World Renewable Energy Congress / Network encompass:
International congresses (World Renewable Energy Congress, WREC)
Regional meetings
Workshops on renewable energy topics
Competitions and awards promoting renewable energy
Journal publication "Renewable Energy"
Scientific publications
Targeted books and annual magazine
Newsletter
Seminars, Workshps and Symposiums
Bahrain Renewable Energy Seminar 2015
> Bahrain 7th Seminar in Renewable Energy & Sustainable Development
> Final Report Bahrain 7th Seminar on Renewable Energy & Sustainable Development
WREN New Journal in Renewable Energy and Sustainability
An International Journal
Expecting the New Journal in Renewable Energy Journal
OBITUARY
Obituary
Friend of Associated Death
FOURTH MED GREEN FORUM
MGF-4, 29 July - 2 August 2017
> Med Green Forum - 4
World Renewable Energy Congress - WREC - 2018 London, UK
WREC - 18,
July 30- August 3,
2018
This is WREN Eighteen World Congress and the second one at the University of Kingston, UK 30 July-3 August 2018.
WREN COUNCIL MEETING WILL BE ON SUNDAY AFTERNOON 29 July 2018
> World Renewable Energy Congress - 18, LONDON, UK
WREN International Seminar in Britain 15-21 October 2017, Old Ship Hotel, Brighton, UK
ISESCO-WREN Seminar
RENEWABLE ENERGY
Policy, Security, Electricity,
Transport, Water Resources
& the Built Environment
20 Top Speakers & 20 Participants will spend a week of Knowledge in the Seaside City Brighton. City of Culture and History. It has the tallest tower in the UK 134 ft. 436 MW wind Farm and the Royal Pavilion.
> WREN-ISESCO International Seminar in Britain No. 94
Last update 02/11/2016
www.wrenuk.co.uk
