British Gas Energy Trust - Home
Application Process
Help
Advice Services
About
Menu
Application Process
Help
Advice Services
About
Welcome to the
British Gas Energy Trust
Helping people get back on their feet and remain debt free.
The British Gas Energy Trust, which incorporates the Scottish Gas Energy Trust, is an independent Charitable Trust established in 2004. The Trust contributes to the relief of poverty, with a particular focus on fuel poverty, helping those who are struggling to pay for their consumption of gas and electricity get back on their feet and remain debt free going forward.
The Trust provides a significant difference to the lives of those in need by awarding grants to clear energy debts and purchase energy efficient white goods. In exceptional cases the Trust can also help with other priority costs. The Trust also funds voluntary organisations to provide money and fuel debt advice services.
Who can apply
Applications to the British Gas Energy Trust are welcomed from families and individuals in need, suffering or other distress.
Click here
How we can help
Click here for details of other organisations that may be able to help you. Whether you wish to contact British Gas directly or speak to someone for advice, you will find all the information you need here.
Click here
BGET Local Advisers
The Trust provides funds to charitable advice agencies based in England, Scotland and Wales for Local Advisors to deliver specialist money and fuel debt advice services in communities. They can also help you over the telephone if you do not live locally.
Click here
Apply For A Grant
The easiest way to apply for a grant is via the Trust’s online application form.
Apply Online
Print Application
Need help with
your application form?
Find your nearest Local Advisor who can help and advise you on completing an application.
Click here
I want to
Clear my gas and electricity debts
Apply for a boiler repair / replacement
Apply for energy efficient white goods
Declare Bankruptcy / DRO /
Sequestration / Minimal Asset Process
Insolvency Options
FAQs
Privacy Policy
The British Gas Energy Trust is administered on behalf of trustees by Charis Grants: www.charisgrants.com
British Gas Energy Trust is a Registered Charity no 1106218. ©2015 British Gas Energy Trust. All Rights Reserved.
contact us
Freepost BRITISH GAS ENERGY TRUST
Tel: 01733 421060
Fax: 01733 421020
Email:bget@charisgrants.com
