growwithdis
growwithdisSearch this site
What we DoOur ApproachServicesBenefits for our ClientsCase StudiesOur CompanyOur StaffRelevant Information & EventsContact Us
Our people have worked with:
Copyright DIS 2010-2013
What we Do
Your own Sales & Marketing Department - instantly, and at a Fraction of the CostWhatever your business is, it is all about winning, keeping and growing your customers. Sales is THE key aspect of growing any business. DIS provides practical, cost-effective and flexible sales and marketing help and support to young IT companies to enable them to achieve market penetration. Our focus is on "execution", rather than "theorising". We offer our services on a totally flexible, on-demand, pay-as-you-use basis to UK and internationally based companies in the Information Technology sector. This includes companies whose business is developing and selling software applications to their customers. Our services have also been particularly successfully employed by established offshore IT companies (for example US, Indian, Chinese, French and Eastern European IT companies) wanting to set-up and kick-start their business in the UK and elsewhere in Europe.Our business consists of two related sets of activities:1. Selling to, and managing - customers on our Clients' behalf. Working with companies to do anything (legal!) which will help in winning and growing customers in their chosen markets, including helping our clients to "commercialise" their product/service. define their target markets, provide advice on market sectors, contracts and terms & conditions, business strategy, approach to the marketplace, pricing, drawing up business and sales plans, attending trade shows/exhibitions/seminars, assisting in bidding for contracts, providing interim sales resource, representing them at networking events etc.2. Offshore Software Development. For companies that develop and/or sell applications software, enabling them to outsource software development to lower cost regions, such as Eastern Europe, India and China. This benefits our end-user client companies by reducing cost, improving speed to market and providing access to a much greater pool of IT skills.We are different....!Our unique blend of knowledge, expertise, understanding, experience of working with young IT businesses, broad range of services, flexible and empathetic approach, cost effectiveness, emphasis on practical help when and where it is needed, "out of the box" thinking, useful contacts in the UK and elsewhere (particularly China), on-demand services, and track record - all make us a highly attractive proposition - and a partner of choice - for IT companies looking for support, innovation and assistance in taking their offerings to market and establishing a successful business.CONTACT us to discuss how we can help to establish/grow YOUR IT Business:Email:  CallingDIS@gmail.comTelephone: 0044 (0)7949 947218
Report Abuse|Powered By Google Sites
