EDF Energy Trust - Home
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Skip to sidebar
EDF Energy Trust
Enter Search Keywords…
Search
Home
About
Application Process
Help
Key Contacts
Case Studies
Downloads
Latest News
Apr 01 2015 - New insolvency declarations available now
New declarations for the Sequestration and Minimal Asset Processes (Scotland) and Bankruptcy / Debt Relief Order (England &amp; Wales) are avail...
Jan 01 2015 - Grants to Organisations
There are currently no plans for further funding opportunities in 2016.
Welcome
The EDF Energy Trust, established in 2003, is an independent Charitable Trust, charity number 1099446. It was the first utility trust of its kind.
The Trust contributes to the relief of poverty with a particular focus on fuel poverty and helping families and individuals who are struggling to pay for their domestic supply of gas and electricity.
The Trust provides a significant difference to the lives of those in need by awarding grants to clear energy debts.  In exceptional circumstances help is also available for energy efficient white goods and other priority debts. The Trust also funds charitable organisations to provide money and fuel debt services.
How we can Help
The EDF Energy Trust helps families and individuals living in fuel poverty, suffering or other distress who are struggling to pay their gas and/or electricity bill by awarding grants to clear those debts. The aim of the Trust is to give vulnerable individuals a fresh start and financial stability enabling them to remain free of fuel debts going forward.
In addition, the Trust also provides grants called Further Assistance Payments to clear gas and electricity debts to other suppliers, purchase energy efficient white goods and Bankruptcy deposits/Debt Relief Orders (DRO's). The Trust also offers grants to money/debt advice organisations to increase money and debt advice services in local communities.
Apply for a grant
Anyone seeking help from the Trust must fill in the Trust’s application form. Applicants are strongly recommended to seek money advice before applying.
Those requiring help to complete the form should contact a local advice agency. In particular the Trust funds 3 advice agencies located in Southen England  to provide money/debt advice and help submit quality applications to the Trust. Click here for details.
Welcome
How we can Help
Apply for a grant
Who we are
The EDF Energy Trust is governed by a board of independent Trustees, who give their time freely.
EDF Energy is the sole funder of the Trust. Their financial commitment in 2016 is £4.5 million.
Since the launch of the Trust in 2003 over 39,000 awards have been made to vulnerable individuals and families totalling over £15.9 million.
Find Out More
How we can Help
The Trust awards grants to individuals and families to:
Clear domestic gas and electricity debts owed to EDF Energy and to other suppliers.
Purchase essential energy efficient household items, e.g. washing machines, cookers.
Bankruptcy/DRO, Sequestration and Minimal Asset Process fees.
Find Out More
How to apply for a Grant
The easiest way to apply for a grant is via the Trust’s online application form.
Alternatively you can print an application form to complete by hand which can be sent to the Trust’s freepost address.
We cannot begin to assess an application until all supporting documentation is provided.
Apply Online
Print Application
EDFET Money / Debt Advice Services
Need advice on how to clear your debts and manage your money? The EDF Energy Trust provides charitable funds to advice agencies to deliver specialist money / debt advice in local communities. Can they help you?
Find Out More
Lower your bills with EDF Energy
For help and useful tips on how to keep your energy bills down.
Find Out More
Information for Advice Agencies/Workers
This section gives information and guidance to advice agencies to help them assist their clients as quickly and effectively as possible in relation to fuel debts and applying to the Trust
Find Out More
Contact Us
Write to: Freepost EDF ENERGY TRUST
Tel: 01733 421060 Fax: 01733 421020
Email: edfet@charisgrants.com
The EDF Energy Trust is administered on behalf of trustees by Charis Grants: www.charisgrants.com
EDF Energy Trust is a Registered Charity no 1099446. ©2017 EDF Energy Trust.
All Rights Reserved. Conditions of use | Privacy policy
Newsletter please enter email
Sign-up
Thanks for subscribing.
