London Coalition Against Poverty
Home
#72 (no title)
About us
Resources & Links
London Coalition Against Poverty
LCAP General Meeting July 11th 1pm-3pm
Posted on | July 1, 2015 | No Comments
London Coalition Against Poverty is a coalition of local groups
who meet to provide support with housing and benefit issues
(homelessness, benefit sanctions, welfare cuts, and dodgy private
landlords), and take collective action on the issues we face. The local
groups meet regularly in their home boroughs. You can read more about
how these groups work in this pamphlet.
Every three months or so we all meet together in London Coaliton Against
Poverty general meetings to share our expereinces and tactics, questions
and ideas, and discuss how we can co-ordinate our activities.
This meeting of will be hosted by Hackney Housing Group, from 1pm – 3pm, in:
Navarino Mansions Community Hall,
Dalston Lane, E8 1LB
Come along to listen to and share experiences of
organising mutual support groups and to help organise grassroots
solidarity and action.
Whether you’re already involved in your local LCAP group,
or you keep on meaning to be, or if you want to start a new group in
your area – come along!
There will be childcare. Please let us know if you need childcare so we can know numbers in advance by emailing londoncoalitionagainstpoverty[at]gmail.com.
Category: Uncategorized
Building Mutual Support? Get the LCAP pamphlet
Posted on | October 29, 2014 | 1 Comment
A new updated print run of the LCAP pamphlet Building mutual support LCAP Pamphlet is out now! Contact londoncoalitionagainstpoverty@gmail.com if you would like some copies sent to you or read it online here.
LCAP has republished this pamphlet, sharing some of our stories and experience!
Category: Uncategorized
Success! HASL member overturns bedroom tax applied to her living room
Posted on | June 14, 2014 | 39 Comments
We demand that Lambeth Council now reconsider it’s flawed and unnecessary application of this tax!
A Housing Action Southwark and Lambeth (HASL) member won her appeal against application of the bedroom tax to her front room last week following protests from the group and representation from Kevin Long at Lambeth Law Centre.
The judge in a tribunal held last month decided that the tax should not apply to the room when use was taken into account. Prior to this decision the Council had simply relied on the Landlord’s classification of the number of bedrooms in the property, showing to members of our group negligence and compliance with Landlords over tenants on behalf of the Council who should have simply carried an independent assessment of the property.
Kevin Long, who since cuts to Legal Aid has worked free of charge on this case, said “I’m now more convinced than ever that every bedroom tax decision should be appealed. Take for example a 2-bedroom under-occupying council tenant where grown-up kid(s) have left home and the spare room is used for storage/study/meditation room/personal library. Clearly this is a situation that the tax was meant to hit – but if you apply the room-use argument to its a logical extreme then the tenant would still have a chance of overcoming it.”
HASL are calling to anyone hit by this tax to contact the group, we hope with this experience we can challenge this regressive policy and have the tax on as many tenants as possible lifted and refunded.
We are also calling on the Council’s of Lambeth and Southwark to reconsider it’s application across the board. Recent steps taken by Glasgow Council prove that Councils need not be simply administrators of regressive central government policy.
As Kevin again states “Councils should be inspecting to establish the ‘facts on the ground’ rather than just relying on the landlord’s classification. This might involve a consideration of ‘use’ – but it might also address issues where there is a genuine dispute over the number of rooms – consider for example a room that has been bricked-up due to partial collapse; or a room uninhabitable due to historic decay; or, as with us, a through-room.”
We will be celebrating our success this weekend in style, making great use of this member’s front room!
Category: Uncategorized
UN Special Rapporteur on Disability — Testimony Session
Posted on | November 18, 2013 | 46 Comments
UN Special Rapporteur on Disability – Testimony Session
Just Fair
Monday, 25 November 2013 from 13:30 to 16:00 (GMT)
London, United Kingdom
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/un-special-rapporteur-on-disability-testimony-session-tickets-9341062369
http://welfaretales.wordpress.com/2013/11/16/un-expert-to-hear-disabled-peoples-austerity-testimony/
Category: UncategorizedTags: austerity measures > bedroom tax > cuts to social care > DLA/PIP > ILF > personal stories > personal testimony > UN Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities > universal credit > Welfare Reform
Housing Action Southwark and Lambeth Info Day
Posted on | October 14, 2013 | 30 Comments
Join Housing Action Southwark and Lambeth on Saturday 26th October 3-6pm at The Brix, St Matthews Church in Brixton (SW2 1JF). We will have information on the cuts to housing and welfare that are happening as well as providing a chance to discuss ways of taking action against our housing situations and getting decent housing for all! Food and childcare will be provided.
Category: Uncategorized
keep looking »
Regular Events
Housing Action Southwark and Lambeth meet every month on the second Thursday (at 12 noon at Papa's Cafe, Pulross Road, Brixton - map) and last Wednesday (at 6.30pm at Renton Close Community Centre - map) to discuss and act together to address our housing problems. Please contact HASLemail@gmail.com for more details.
Hackney Housing Group meet to give and receive support on housing problems and campaign for better housing every second Saturday from 1pm-3pm at Navarino Mansions, Dalston Lane, Hackney, E8 1LE (map). Call 07931698438 for more details.
Welfare Action Hackney
meet every second Saturday with Hackney Housing Group. Call 07931698438 for more details.
Islington Poverty Action Group
Meeting about problems with the benefits system and anti poverty campaigns every second and fourth Wednesday of the month at 12.30pm at HNG Old Fire Station, 85 Mayton St, N7 6QT. Contact islingtonpovertyactiongroup@gmail.com for more details.
Kilburn Unemployed Workers Group
Our weekly meetings are an opportunity for all to get together for support in opposition to social security claimant sanctions. Our agendas include updates on claimant cases, JobCentre demonstrations, as well as West London social activities. All are welcome for a chat and a cuppa.Kilburn Unemployed Workers Group is supported by Brent Trades Council, representative body for trade unionists in Brent.KUWG. Closest tubes: Kilburn Park on Bakerloo line, Kilburn on Jubilee Line and Brondesbury Station Silverlink.Thursdays, 3 - 5pm, Kingsgate Community Centre, please contact 07724 843 973, for more details.
Haringey Housing Action Group
We meet 3 times a month to support each other with housing problems. We meet 1st and 3rd friday of each month and last saturday. All meetings are 2 hours long, fridays we start at 10:00 am, saturdays start at 11:00am. Address: Cafe Life, 22 Moorefield Rd, N17 6PY. At the moment only friday meetings have step free access. Come along to a meeting, meet other people and see what we do.
Films
London Coalition Against Poverty:
Hackney Housing Shame! Hostel residents speak out - May 2009
Hackney's temporary accommodation Residents explain what Temporary means to the Council! - April 2009
Alexandra Court Campaign film - 2008
March for Better Hostel Conditions - 2009
Christmas Invasion of RBS - 2008
LCAP Activist Speaks At Anarchist Rally - 2009
LCAP Picket Hackney JobCentre - 2009
Ontario Coalition Against Poverty:
Fighting To Win - Part I
Fighting To Win - Part II
Against Poverty
Irregular bulletin of the London Coalition Against Poverty
Issue 1 - Autumn 2007
Issue 2 - Spring 2008
Issue 2 - Autumn 2008
About LCAP
London Coalition Against Poverty is a coalition of groups which are based on the idea that through solidarity and direct action, ordinary people have the power to change our own lives. See details of group meetings below.
More about LCAP
Join the announcement list
Join our news announcement email list
Search for:
Links
London Groups
Housing Action Southwark and Lambeth
Welfare Action Hackney
Haringey Housing Action Group (HHAG)
Haringey Solidarity Group
Hackney Housing Group
Kilburn Unemployed Workers Group
Islington Poverty Action Group
Newham Claimants Union
Wider UK Groups
Edinburgh Coalition Against Poverty
Nottingham Claimants Union
Useful list of UK anti-cuts groups
International Groups
Ontario Coalition Against Poverty
Abahlali baseMjondolo: South African Shack Dwellers' Movement
Campaigns
Boycott Workfare
Disabled People Against Cuts
UK Uncut
Good blogs
Johnny Void on changes to welfare
Intensive Activity - links to loads of other blogs
Organising Communities blog: Discussion about community organising
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
London Coalition Against Poverty | 07932 241737 | lcap@lcap.org.uk
