Get Britain Building - Home
Delivering Jobs and Growth
Home Jobs and Growth Housing Refurbishment Infrastructure Skills
About us Support Press What can I do? Links GBB Blog Archive
Sign up Now
Delivering Jobs and Growth
Download PDF
A Golden Opportunity
The UK has a golden opportunity to build for the future and in doing so, create jobs, growth, a balanced economy and a greener environment.
We call upon the next
Government to place the delivery of new and
improved housing, non-domestic buildings and
infrastructure at the heart of their long term
plans
Inward investment
The UK Government has a key role to play in
creating the economic environment that will
attract inward investment and create long term
sustainable growth
Skills and training
A major step change is required to provide
hundreds of thousands of meaningful jobs
Key outputs by 2020
Emerging from recession it is important to
rebuild our infrastructure, manufacturing
capacity and skills.
30 year local plans for housing and infrastructure
In a global economy investors look for
confidence, security and long term vision.
New homes
Publish a long term housing strategy within the first
year of Government and commit to solving the
housing crisis within a generation
Existing homes
Encourage and put in place a range of incentives to
facilitate the overall improvement of our 26 million
homes
Infrastructure
Ensure small as well as large plots of public land
are released in local plans
Skills
Work with industry to increase construction
apprenticeships and meet the demand for 200,000
new jobs by 2019
Get Britain Building: A Golden Opportunity
The UK has a golden opportunity to build for the future and in doing so, create jobs, growth, a balanced economy and a greener environment. The UK must invest in new and existing housing if we are to compete in the fast growing global economy.
Solve the housing crisis within a generation
Successful delivery of major projects, such as the Olympics and Crossrail provide evidence that the UK has the ability and ingenuity to deliver when it matters. We call upon the next Government to place the delivery of new and improved housing, non-domestic buildings and infrastructure at the heart of their long term plans and ensure that the housing crisis is solved within a generation.
Homes for Britain from Homes for Britain on Vimeo.
Source: video created by UKCG
Latest News
"Britain had been incapable of building enough homes"
This has been a great week for the “Get Britain Building Campaign” with the Government setting out a...
10/07/2015
Read More
Housing Bill leads Queen’s Speech reforms
The Government's ground-breaking Housing Bill, seeking to extend home ownership, forms a key part of the new...
27/05/2015
Read More
Housing starts growth eases after rising 10% last year
Housing starts have continued to steadily climb rising 10% to 137,010 last year, according the Department for Communities...
19/02/2015
Read More
