Nasdu – National Association of Security Dog Users
Nasdu
National Association of Security Dog Users
Home
Membership
Current Company Members
International Members
Individual Members
Membership Applications
Training
Training Courses (Qualifications)
Current Approved Instructors/Trainers
Trainer Course Dates
Trainer Fact Sheets
Canine First Aid
News/Events
Forthcoming Events
News
Merchandise/Publications
Clothing
Insignia
Publications
Magazine
Advertising
Situations Vacant
Seeking Employment
Classified
Rehoming
Links
Insurance Companies
Sponsors
Industry Associations
Useful Links
Welcome to The National Association of Security Dog Users NASDU promotes Welfare, Standards, Training and Education within the Security Dog Sector and offers support and guidance to its membership.
NASDU is recognised within the security industry by the Security Industry Authority (S.I.A.)*, Skills for Security, BSIA, IPSA together with the Home Office, ACPO, MOD, DEFRA, BSI, as well as Animal Welfare Groups like local Authority Dog Wardens. NASDU produce a regular and informative glossy magazine, keeping members up to date with the industry and related topics together with Codes of Practice and training materials. The following pages contain information about NASDU, how to join, together with the benefits of membership. Regular updates will be made announcing news and items of interest within our sector.
*Whilst a recognised body by the SIA NASDU is not endorsed nor is it an Approved Contractor for the deployment of Security Dogs.
Our Aim
To achieve and promote National Standards for ALL Trainers, Handlers and Dogs used within the Security Industry and for those who are concerned with the Care, Health, Safety and Welfare of dogs within the Security Industry.
Our Objectives
To maintain nationally recognised standards for the training of Security Dog Trainers.
To maintain nationally recognised training and operational standards for Security Dog Handlers.
To maintain nationally recognised training and operational standards for Security Dogs.
To maintain a nationally recognised standard for the Care, Health, Safety & Welfare of the Security Dog.
To maintain a recognised Code of Practice for the Training and Operational Requirements of Security Dog Trainers, Security Dog Handlers, Security Dogs, Security Dog Training Companies and those who have responsibilities for their Care, Health, Safety & Welfare.
To continually advertise and promote NASDU and the reason for its existence to the Security Industry, all relevant organisations, associations and individuals.
To maintain the acceptance and backing of the Security Industry, all relevant organisations, associations and individuals, for the Aims and Objectives of NASDU.
Our Management
Companies Act 1985 - incorporated 4th November 1996 whose Memorandum & Articles of Association refer to NASDU as a charity is required to have three Directors who act as trustees and:
Committee - in accordance with its Constitution and Rules the affairs of the Association are conducted by the NASDU Committee, which shall consist of nine persons elected by a majority decision of the members of NASDU at the Associations Annual General Meeting.
Co-opted Members - from time to time the Committee may co-opt members to assist with specific functions or to sit on any of the Sub Committees.
Main Sponsor
OMNI Security Services Ltd
Main Corporate Sponsor
Contact us 48 Newark Lane,
Ripley,
Woking,
Surrey GU23 6BZ
Tel 01483 224 320
Fax 01483 224 735
Email info@nasdu.co.uk
© NASDU  |  Provided by Web Graphics
error: Content is protected !!
