Home - National Pubwatch
National Pubwatch
Search for:
Menu
Home
About
Information
News
Pubwatch Awards
Pubwatch Members
Police Staff
Products
Conference & Events
Online Booking
Events Archive
FAQs
Corporate Partners
Insurance
Contact
Pubwatch Online
Pubwatch Map
Newsletters
Welcome to National Pubwatch
National Pubwatch is a voluntary organisation set up to promote best practice through supporting the work of local Pubwatch Schemes. Its aim is to achieve a safer drinking environment in all licensed premises throughout the UK.
“Alcohol related crime has a significant detrimental impact on our town centres and local communities. The Governments Modern Crime Prevention Strategy highlights the importance of working together to address this. I am therefore extremely grateful to the National Pubwatch Scheme for the vital work that they do to promote local partnerships across the UK to tackle the small number of offenders whose actions can cause real damage to the night time economy.”
Sarah Newton MP, Minister for Vulnerabilty, Safeguarding and Countering Extremism
“National Pubwatch plays a key role in promoting good practice and supporting local Pubwatch schemes which can make a real difference to improving the safety of people working and socialising in our town and city centres.”
ACC Rachel Kearton – Alcohol Lead, National Police Chief’s Council
News in brief
National Pubwatch Celebrates 20th Anniversary
National Pubwatch will be celebrating its 20th anniversary at its annual conference which this year is being held at the Hilton Hotel Reading on 28th February. We have produced a 20th anniversary magazine which is packed full of information about NPW, the services it provides and it’s plans for the future – including new for 2017 – its […]
Wisbech hopes to replicate successful Pubwatch scheme for off-trade
Wisbech is named Alcohol Action Area. New measures are set to be introduced in a bid to clamp down on problems associated with street drinking in Wisbech. The town, along with Peterborough, is among more than 30 locations listed as a Local Alcohol Action Area under new plans launched by the Home Office on Friday. […]
Shrewsbury Pubwatch contributing to Purple Flag success
Revellers at a nightclub in Shrewsbury Nightlife in Shrewsbury is booming according to new figures Shrewsbury is boasting double success after retaining its award as a vibrant and safe destination and experiencing a 20 per cent increase in people enjoying nights out in the town. Assessors have decided Shrewsbury town centre should keep its Purple […]
more news
Upcoming Events
2017-02-28
National Pubwatch Conference 2017, Reading
see all events
© National Pubwatch. All Rights Reserved. Website and hosting by SqueasyWeb
Home
Sitemap
About
Contact
Facebook
Twitter
