Eco Friendly, Eco Bags, Reusable, Environmentally Conscious, Coffee Mugs Cups, BPA Free Stainless Steel Bottles Home Page Onya Innovations UK ltd
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Onya Bags
My Account
Login
Login
Forgot Your Password?
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Checkout
Free Shipping on all UK orders over £35.00!
Home
Our Story
Products
H2Onya Bottles
H2Onya Accessories
Bags & Backpacks
rPET Onya Bags
Original Onya
Everyday Onya (Big Onya)
Onya Side
Onya Back
Onya Lunch
Onya Weigh
Dump It Onya
Onya Bundles
BYOcup
Bucket ina Bag
Charcoal People
CapaBunga
Eco Action Games
Eco Gardening
Reusable Silicone Lids
Water / Eco Gadgets
Wrap-N-Mat
For Hot Drinks
Spares
Clearance / Reduced
Musings from HQ
FAQS
Contact Us
Stockists
Onya Bags Practical & sustainable bags
H2OnyaSafe, stainless steel drinking bottles
BYO CupsCoffee on the go with nothing to throw
Onya LunchA sustainable and reusable alternative to cling film
Bags & Backpacks
> View Products
Onya Innovations have been making a wide range of plastic bag alternatives since 2004. We pride ourselves in producing the most practical & sustainable bags around.Always Handy Always Onya !
H2Onya Bottles
> View Products
H2Onya arms you against the over-priced and over-polluting bottled water on the shelves, so you can simply and conveniently drink your own water from your own tap. The H2Onya is tough and toxin free - stainless steel doesn't leach chemicals intoyour water.
BYOcup
> View Products
Finally, a cool looking coffee cup you can re-use again and again and again.The 'BYOcup' keeps your coffee warm yet it is cool to the touch. Use it. Wash it. Use it.A way of enjoying the coffee of your choice, without adding more rubbish to the world.
Onya Lunch
> View Products
The super-strong and *very Onya* Onya Lunch is uniquely designed for both your large roll/multiple sandwiches or to re-wrap that small half eaten toddler sandwich for later. A sustainable and reusable alternative to cling film, tin foil or plastic sandwich bag. Your stuff away fruit ‘n’ veggie bags.
Onya Weigh
> View Products
These super thin, transparent bags, contained within a pouch, ensure a guilt free trip down the fruit and veg aisle or to the farmers’ markets. Wash goods within the bag, dry the bag in seconds and store until your next shopping mission is Onya Weigh.
We all know we need to change our behaviour and be a bit greener in everything we do.
Onya make changing your behaviour easy.
Onya’s focus is to reduce the impact of disposable culture.
At Onya we aim to develop innovative and practical solutions to reduce social and environmental impacts.  From refuse to reuse – we fight against disposable culture by making it simple to change our wasteful ways.
We think the best way to encourage this change is to offer solutions with exceptional appeal, innovation, style, convenience and practicality.
Check out the products
page for more info including sizes.
Join the conversation at
Join our mailing list
Email address
Customer Service
Terms
Privacy
About Us
Contact Us
© 2012 Onya Bags. All Rights Reserved. Developed by Cloud Bus Ltd
