SteelConstruction.org – All the information you need about steel construction
Navigation
Close
Username
Password
Lost your password?
Register
Remember Me
SteelConstruction.org
All the information you need about steel construction
Home
Main MenuHome
Directories
Resources
BCSA
SCCS
Contact Us
Return to Content
Directories
Here you can find steelwork contractors for buildings and bridges and suppliers of steel construction products and services.
Buildings
Click here to find a building steelwork contractor.
Bridgeworks
Click here to find a bridgework steelwork contractor.
Components, Materials and Products
Click here to find a supplier of steel construction components, materials and products.
Corporate Members
Click here for clients and professional offices which support overall industry efficiency and good practice.
Sustainability
Find Steel Construction Sustainability Charter Member companies.
Building Information Modelling
Find BIM Level 2 compliant companies.
Latest News
STATEMENT FROM THE BRITISH CONSTRUCTIONAL STEELWORK ASSOCIATION
The British Constructional Steelwork Association (BCSA) continues to assure the construction sector that the ongoing issues around UK steelmaking will not affect the structural steelwork sector’s delivery of current and future projects.
BCSA says that procuring constructional steelwork from a UK or Irish steelwork contractor is the best way to support UK steelmaking:
– UK and Irish steelwork contractors understand the government’s new procurement requirements for steel, and provide the clearest route for compliance
– Using a UK or Irish steelwork contractor adds additional value to the UK economy through the whole supply chain including the fabrication of the steelwork, and the supply of other products and services such as secondary steelwork, metal decking, protective coatings and cladding
– Overseas steelwork contractors are very unlikely to procure UK-made steel because of the additional time and cost
The UK and Ireland have an efficient steel distribution sector that services the structural steelwork sector well with a balance of UK and high quality imported steels.  UK and Irish steel distributors hold high levels of stock and a wide range of products for all construction and infrastructure end-uses. Continue reading →
6th April 2016 Gillian Mitchell
UK STEELWORK CONTRACTORS HAVE SUFFICIENT CAPACITY TO MEET FUTURE DEMAND – KPMG
As the UK’s construction industry continues to grow, a new report from KPMG says that UK steelwork contractors have sufficient capacity to meet forecast demand for constructional steelwork, without the need for capital investment.
The KPMG report concludes that UK steelwork contractors hold latent capacity of between 205,000 and 406,000 tonnes.  This means that the UK’s constructional steelwork capacity lies between 1,142,000 and 1,343,000 tonnes against forecast demand for constructional steelwork of 1,050,000 tonnes in 2019.
Richard Threlfall, KPMG’s UK Head of Infrastructure, Building and Construction said ‘UK steelwork contractors hold latent capacity which will allow them to quickly increase production to meet the forecast rise in demand from the construction industry’.
The report concludes that the required increase in constructional steelwork output in the UK will be achieved through a combination of increasing shifts, use of agency staff, and fully utilising current production facilities, without the need for any capital investment. Continue reading →
7th March 2016 Peter Constantinou
View more news
Publications and Online Shop
Publications are available to buy or download here.
CE Marking
CE Marking of construction products was introduced in the Construction Products Directive (CPD) in 1988. For more information click here. Also see:
CE Marking Seminars - Implications for Engineers
CE Marking Seminars - Implications for Main Contractors
CE Marking Seminars - Legal Position
http://www.SteelConstruction.org - The website of the British Constructional Steelwork Association Ltd.
The British Constructional Steelwork Association Ltd. - postroom@steelconstruction.org - 020 7839 8566
© All Rights Reserved BCSA - The British Constructional Steelwork Association Ltd.
Privacy Policy & Cookies
This website uses cookies to improve your user experience. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our privacy policy. I accept
