The just-food Blog | Food Industry Blog, Comments, News and Updates
just-food home
just-food bloggers
Exclusive food industry insights, from expert just-food bloggers
Subscribe via RSSWhat is RSS?
Latest blogs from just-food
Fyffes to face Ethical Trading Initiative disciplinary committee
17 Feb 2017
Dean Best
A year after union officials alleged Fyffes abused workers on plantations in Central America - and called on the produce giant to be kicked out of the Ethical Trading Initiative forum - the company is set to go before a committee at the UK-based organisation.
Could 3G Capital's next move be in foodservice?
15 Feb 2017
Dean Best
Much of the chatter about where 3G Capital could look next has centred on packaged food - but might the private-equity fund be about to extend its foodservice empire?
Safety allegations could tarnish Mead Johnson's reputation
10 Feb 2017
Katy Askew
Headlines that Mead Johnson's board has backed Reckitt Benckiser's takeover bid will no doubt overshadow the other news on the group this week – that it is facing a US lawsuit from a “whistle blower” over alleged breaches of safety procedures.
The list of UK's top five grocers has a new member
7 Feb 2017
Dean Best
Kantar Worldpanel issued its monthly supermarket share data in the UK this morning - and the numbers showed a change in the identity of the country's top five food retailers.
JBS names board for international spin-off - and one name stands out
31 Jan 2017
Dean Best
JBS, the Brazil-based meat giant, is in the process of listing of its international business and has this week named a clutch of directors that are set to sit on the spin-off's board.
One major investment bank believes US-China trade war unlikely
23 Jan 2017
David Leggett
Although risks of trade friction have increased with Donald Trump's election as US President, a research note from investment bank Credit Suisse sees an all-out trade war between the country and China as unlikely.
UK food industry gives cautious welcome to Theresa May's Brexit speech
18 Jan 2017
Dean Best
UK Prime Minister Theresa May has shed some light on what she wants from the country's negotiations to leave the EU and its post-Brexit future - and the food sector has given her speech a cautious welcome.
Unilever - consumers in emerging markets care more about sustainability
5 Jan 2017
Dean Best
Unilever, one of the consumer goods companies seen in the vanguard of sustainable business, has issued data it claims shows the issue is a bigger driver of shopper behaviour in emerging markets than in the developed world.
We wish you a merry Christmas
23 Dec 2016
Dean Best
Today (23 December) is just-food's last day before closing for Christmas. We'll return, raring to go on Tuesday 3 January - but of course there's been plenty of top-notch content that has gone live in recent days for you to get you teeth into before then.
UK food associations come together on Brexit
9 Dec 2016
Dean Best
The plethora of food manufacturing associations in the UK has been argued by some to be an impediment to the industry coming to a coherent position on the aftermath of Brexit and on what the sector should be demanding from the country's government now and ahead of talks with the EU. This week, more than 30 bodies published an open letter on the subject of labour, one of the critical issues facing the sector.
Amazon cools talk of plans for wave of grocery stores
9 Dec 2016
Dean Best
An update on Amazon's plans for the grocery sector. The usually reticent retailer has this week poured cold water on claims it has plans for 2,000 physical grocery stores.
Will Amazon Go be retail "game-changer"?
6 Dec 2016
Dean Best
Ask any FMCG executive to list the trends shaking up the sector and digital and e-commerce will be pretty high on the list. Drill down into that and Amazon will be one of the subjects in the digital sphere of keen interest to consumer goods manufacturers the world over. And the US behemoth's latest venture has certainly got the industry talking.
UK food producers call for "best possible single market access" post-Brexit
1 Dec 2016
John Shepherd
Since Theresa May took over as UK Prime Minister in the wake of the country's referendum vote to quit the European Union, she and her ministers have been at pains not to divulge their negotiating position for leaving the bloc.
How do you see 2017 panning out for your business?
30 Nov 2016
Dean Best
We are running our annual Confidence Survey - now in its fifth year - to provide to our readers a snapshot of how they and their peers in the international food industry see the year ahead unfolding. The latest survey is live and takes just a few moments to fill in.
Greenpeace trains sights on Sainsbury's over John West tuna
22 Nov 2016
Dean Best
Greenpeace's long-running campaign against UK tuna brand John West, owned by seafood giant Thai Union, is now directing its fire against Sainsbury's.
Post-Trump victory, TPP trade deal appears dead
15 Nov 2016
Dean Best
The Obama administration appears to have conceded the landmark Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal will not be pushed through in the lame-duck session of Congress before Donald Trump is inaugurated in January.
Food industry highlights Hallowe'en pumpkin waste
28 Oct 2016
Katy Askew
UK consumers are being urged to think of other ways to use their jack-o-lanterns and cut the millions of tonnes of pumpkin that is wasted at this time of year.
Lack of healthy options at UK attractions points to opportunity
26 Oct 2016
Katy Askew
A new report by the Soil Association has highlighted a lack of healthy lunch options at the cafes of some of the UK's most prestigious visitor attractions.
just-food hits the UK's airwaves
13 Oct 2016
Dean Best
The BBC turned to just-food today for insight on the price dispute between Tesco and Unilever.
Ranjit Boparan buys another UK business out of administration
13 Oct 2016
Dean Best
Just weeks after buying UK turkey processor Bernard Matthews from administration, food tycoon Ranjit Boparan has struck a similar deal.
Brexit blues for UK food manufacturers
12 Oct 2016
Dean Best
Confidence in the UK food and drink manufacturing sector is becoming "more fragile", industry association The Food and Drink Federation has claimed after a survey of its members - and Brexit is said to be a major factor.
Tyson Foods investors left to chew over analyst claims
10 Oct 2016
Dean Best
Shares in Tyson Foods slumped on Friday, closing down almost 9% after an analyst claimed a lawsuit facing the company could hit the US meat titan.
Analysing the next key markets for gluten-free
6 Oct 2016
John Shepherd
Hardly a day goes by when just-food is not reporting on the launch of a product that is gluten-free, a category that is now significant in markets like the US and the UK. But where could be the next major markets for gluten-free?
Orkla goes with its gut on latest acquisition
4 Oct 2016
Dean Best
Orkla, one of the largest consumer goods companies in the Nordic region, has added to its portfolio this week with an acquisition of a brand in the health sector.
Consumers are cooking for social media - and how brands can capitalise
28 Sep 2016
Katy Askew
We hear a lot in the food industry about two interconnected trends: and social media and “foodie” culture.
Nestle announces changes to senior team with new CEO on horizon
27 Sep 2016
Dean Best
Nestle, set to welcome a new CEO on 1 January, has announced more changes to the make-up of its senior management team.
Blue Bell Creameries involved in another safety scare
26 Sep 2016
Dean Best
Blue Bell Creameries is trying to win back the trust of consumers after a fatal listeriosis outbreak last year was linked to its products - but in recent days the US ice cream maker has issued another recall amid concerns a product could contain a strain of the listeria bacteria.
Hain Celestial's Orchard House deal waved through
23 Sep 2016
Dean Best
The UK's competition regulator has given the all-clear to Hain Celestial's bid to buy UK food and beverage group Orchard House Foods, nine months after the US group announced the deal.
Hershey's unusual move to share sales data
20 Sep 2016
Dean Best
Hershey made an unusual announcement today (20 September), sharing its own sales data for the last four weeks to assuage any possible investor concern over figures released by Nielsen.
Are EU nations using Brexit to revisit country of origin labeling?
16 Sep 2016
John Shepherd
As the UK starts to ponder what kind of a relationship it wants with the European Union post-Brexit, EU leaders have been lining up to warn that Britain will not be allowed to "cherry pick" deals and policies that might suit it best as a departing member of the club of EU nations.
Browse all 2,201 blogs
Most Popular
InsightsFocus: Nestle CEO plan to balance sales, earningsDoes Kraft Heinz want to swallow Unilever whole?Will Kellogg's DSD exit help it grow in US snacks?Comment: Meal kits in US - don't believe the hypeIs Mondelez's margin target hurting sales?
NewsNestle plans restructuring as 2016 profit misses Danone eyes efficiency, agility with new structureKraft Heinz pursuing Unilever in takeover moveKraft Heinz returns to organic growth, ups marginsDanone sales dampened by Europe, China
Market research
Is Sugar the next Tobacco?
Consumer and Market Insights: Bakery and Cereals in the UK
Global Confectionery Report
Consumer and Market Insights: Meat in Russia
Baby Nutrition Insights - Issue 29
Login |
Join
Email Address
Password
Forgot your password?
Menu
LoginJoin
Food News & comment
Comment
Analysis
Financials & M&A
Interviews
Launches & NPD
Food Policy & CSR
Labelling & Advertising
Food safety
Health & wellness
Sustainability & Environment
Food retailing
Retail & Retailers
Omnichannel
Private Label & Own Brand
Hot issues
Columns
The just-food blog
Shopper trends
Consuming issues
What the analysts say
Deal or no deal
M&A Watch
On the move
BRICs and beyond
Sustainability Watch
Editor's viewpoint
In the spotlight
On the money
Management briefings
Thought Leaders
Latest news
Analysis
Comment
Interviews
just-food blog
Regions
Europe
North America
Asia
Australia & New Zealand
Africa
Emerging markets
Latin America
Middle East
All countries
Companies
Nestle
Unilever
Mondelez International
Danone
General Mills
Kellogg
PepsiCo
Aryzta
Kraft Heinz
Mead Johnson
Hershey
Arla Foods
Cadbury
Kerry Group
Tesco
Premier Foods plc
United Biscuits
Tyson Foods
Lactalis
ParmalatAll companies
Sectors
Snacks & Confectionery
Bakery & Baked Goods
Dairy & Dairy Foods
Frozen Food & Ice Cream
Free-From
Meat & Poultry
Infant & Baby Food
Commodities & Ingredients
Chilled Foods
Fresh Food & Produce
Canned Food
Fish & Seafood
Cereal
Natural & Organic Food
Condiments, Dressings & Sauces
Dried Foods
All sectors
Food research
Food Market Research
Food Consultants
About
About just-food
Advertise on just-food
Contact just-food
Buy food market research
New food market research
Food sector market research
Food companies market research
Food market research publishers
Food industry consultants
Food flavourings buyers' guide
Food industry webinars
News & comment by region
Your account
Advertise on just-food
Subscribe to just-food
RSS feeds
Site map
About just-food
©2017 All content copyright just-food.com
Published by Aroq Ltd. Address & registered office: Aroq House, 17A Harris Business Park, Bromsgrove, Worcs, B60 4DJ, UK.
Tel:
Intl +44 (0)1527 573 600. Toll Free from US: 1-866-545-5878. Fax: +44 (0)1527 577423.
Registered in England No:
4307068.
Aroq publishes: just-auto.com | just-food.com | just-drinks.com | just-style.com
Get full access to all content, just $1 for 30 days
Expand
A Message From The Editor [x]
just-food gives you the widest food market coverage.
But only paid just-food members have full, unlimited access to all our exclusive content - including 17 years of archives.
I am so confident you will love complete access to our content that today I can offer you 30 days access for $1.
It’s our best ever membership offer – just for you.
Dean Best, editor of just-food
Get 30 days for $1
Risk-free, money-back guarantee
