Car Insurance Guide
Featured Providers View our complete list of providers
News
Insurance claims – a look at the break-down between the sexes
The age-old argument of which sex is the better driver will no doubt rumble on for many years to come, but some interesting statistics have been brought to light by MoneySuperMarket which has looked at some 11 million insurance quotes. It seems that although men have fewer accidents than women, they cost the insurance industry…
[ Read More ]
New drivers lose their licence after six points
Statistics show just how many newly qualified drivers thumb their noses at the concept of safe driving. Strict laws to cut the number of deaths of inexperienced drivers were brought in in 1995, leading to an automatic ban for those who totted up six penalty points or more within the first two years of them…
[ Read More ]
‘Morning-after’ drink-driving arrests have risen
The vast majority of drivers take a responsible attitude to drink-driving and either opt for a taxi after a night out or make sure that the designated driver sticks to soft drinks. However, how many of us have staggered home in the small hours of the morning somewhat worse for wear, only to get behind…
[ Read More ]
Useful Links
Airport Hotel Shop
Compare Airport Hotel prices at 25 Airports including Heathrow, Dublin and Stansted
Airport Parking Shop
Compare Airport Parking prices at 30 UK Airports including Gatwick, Heathrow and Manchester
Car Hire Centre
Find and compare car hire deals in the UK and across the globe
Insurance Guides
Home Insurance Guide
Our guide to car insurance
Travel Insurance Guide
Our guide to travel insurance
Home
News
Providers
Policy basics
Policy types
Personal policies
Driving abroad
Making a claim
Specialist policies
Young drivers
Women’s insurance
Senior drivers
Motorbikes
Classic cars
Commercial vehicles
GAP insurance
Buying a policy
Saving money
Where to buy
Cancellation
Breakdown Cover
Accidents
Help and advice
Glossary
Car Insurance Guide – Impartial, comprehensive and trusted by thousands
Compare the UK’s top car insurance providers
Includes policy details for providers offering either fully comprehensive and third party car insurance with optional fire and theft cover.
Get the best car insurance
Choosing the best is about matching the cover to your needs.
Find out more »
Policy types simplified
We’ve found the best for younger, older & women drivers. Plus cover for
commercial, classical cars, motorcycles and more.
Share your reviews and experiences
We’re totally impartial so we want to hear from
you with your feedback.
Review a car insurance provider »
News
Insurance claims – a look at the break-down between the sexes
The age-old argument of which sex is the better driver will no doubt rumble on for many years to come, but some interesting statistics have been brought to light by MoneySuperMarket which has looked at some 11 million insurance quotes. It seems that although men have fewer accidents than women, they cost the insurance industry…
[ Read More ]
New drivers lose their licence after six points
Statistics show just how many newly qualified drivers thumb their noses at the concept of safe driving. Strict laws to cut the number of deaths of inexperienced drivers were brought in in 1995, leading to an automatic ban for those who totted up six penalty points or more within the first two years of them…
[ Read More ]
‘Morning-after’ drink-driving arrests have risen
The vast majority of drivers take a responsible attitude to drink-driving and either opt for a taxi after a night out or make sure that the designated driver sticks to soft drinks. However, how many of us have staggered home in the small hours of the morning somewhat worse for wear, only to get behind…
[ Read More ]
This website is part of The Guides Network
which is owned and operated by Fubra Limited,
hosted by CatN.
Copyright © 2003 - 2017, all rights reserved. Please read our
Privacy Policy
