J A Publishing
J A Publishing is based in Cambridge, UK and provides the following services:
Market audit and analysis
Market strategy development
Marketing management systems development
Marketing planning and venture proposal writing
Copy-writing
On-line systems: e.g. web sites, intranet, CD-ROM, etc.
Jayne Crean
Jayne Crean (was: Jayne Alexander) first trained as an electronic engineer where she was, ironically, also secretary of the University's Psychology Society.
After that, she worked as a systems programmer and then she soon found her way into marketing, sales, support, training and general management - after all, there's no way to design something well unless you understand what the user wishes to do!
She worked in these sectors:
Medical imaging systems
Typesetting systems and printing
Computer manufacturing
Distributed computing
Networking and resilient systems
Colour reprographics and Graphic Arts
Photography and photo-libraries
Accounting and stock control
Education
Electronic publishing and multimedia
Health
...and she presented over 40 papers at many conferences in these sectors.
Mentoring
Jayne helps professionals develop or regain their confidence.
Clients
Companies she has worked for include:
EMI Medical Limited, Miles 33 plc, LSI Computers Limited, BICC Data Networks Limited, Acorn Computers Limited, Wace Group plc, Synopsys Technology Limited, Saatchi & Saatchi (London & Worldwide) and Sapphyr Internet Publishing Limited plus many of their customers and suppliers.
She held senior positions with these companies and started J A Publishing in 1992.
She now spends her time offering business advice and support and writes.
Synopsys Technology Limited
Legacy information about our sister company Synopsys Technology Limited
Writing
Jayne started writing fiction when she was eight and even won a prize! :)
This stood her in good stead when it came to sorting out clients' 'copy'!
...and, correspondingly, it encouraged her to attend a number of writing courses and part of an MA in English Lit.
One day, when she can stand the politics, she *might* get some fiction published!
Contact
J A Publishing may be contacted on info@jayne-crean.com
Groups
Enterprising Women Summer Lunch, June 2008
ACCU
CHASE
the Cambridge Hi-Tech Association of Small Enterprises
Rating
This site and its contents are provided for information
Useful links
Frixo Road Traffic Reports
2015-12-03-T14:19:00 JC
