Your Cambridge Marketing Agency - Spirus
Skip to content
Home
Marketing
Public Relations
Telemarketing
and
Telesales
Events Management
Latest
Our Team
To be Outstanding
You have to Stand Out
Click!
Search for:
Get the Latest News and Tips on Marketing for Sales - Straight to your Inbox.
Email address:
Your Cambridge Marketing Agency
Welcome to Spirus.
At Spirus we know how to grow your business. We believe in marketing for sales – so everything we do at Spirus is designed to impact your bottom line.
Your Cambridge connection
We know Cambridge people
We are a Cambridge marketing agency and have been delivering targeted marketing solutions in Cambridge for more than 15 years.
Our detailed local knowledge and expertise allows us to craft and implement strategies that take advantage of our position in the area. Our all-inclusive service will design, develop, drive and deliver effective marketing that improves your ROI.
We can effectively tailor very specific marketing for our clients who want to reach a very select group of customers, not only for local SMEs but also for national brands who want to use our knowledge.
National brands frequently rely on our insight into the town, its people and its businesses to give them the information they need to be seen and heard in Cambridge.
Why choose a Cambridge marketing agency?
The value of using a Cambridge marketing agency is that we know where Cambridge people spend their leisure time, how they get their news, where they hear about events, what services they use and how they think. We can help you get under their skin.
Cambridge is a thriving and cosmopolitan community that also attracts a huge number of tourists and overseas visitors, so our thorough local insight can help your business reach a wide customer base as well as an exquisitely selected one. What’s more, everyone at Spirus is an expert in their field, which means all your marketing requirements will be delivered by someone working at the top of their game. We will become an extension to your own in-house team.
The driving force behind Spirus is Jo Riches and Tania Verdonk, who have collectively more than twenty years’ experience in marketing, PR, events and telemarketing. The company was formed when Tania’s telemarketing company Blue Warthog merged with marketing, events and PR consultancy Jo Riches Ltd.
Check out some of our recent projects.
Marketing for Sales
Spirus Marketing
Suite 9 The Maltings · Burwell · Cambridge · CB25 0HB
01638 741830
hello@spirusmarketing.com
Our Services
Marketing
Public Relations
Telemarketing and Telesales
Events Management
Our Ethos
Be Outstanding
The Cambridge Connection
The 4D Approach
Spirus
Telemarketing Charter
Clients
Latest
Our Team
Recent Posts
Single Parents Wanted for Cambridge Uni Research – can you help?
Spirus Marketing celebrates 4th birthday with exciting new client
The evolution of content marketing
Why you need a third party to carry out employee satisfaction surveys
When everything is digital – who can you trust?
@spirusmarketing
Well who knew?
Very handy @DewetPierre twitter.com/DewetPierre/st…
About 2 days ago
Good for mind, body and soul. @CamBodymechanic twitter.com/CamBodymechani…
About 3 days ago
Just had a very interesting meeting with a local company who are clearly top of their game. #Marketing #social & #copywriting help needed.
About 4 days ago
The spire that inspired @Spirusmarketing's name,
quite majestic against a blue spring sky. #Burwell pic.twitter.com/9WDb9m27SK
About 5 days ago
What's your favourite? twitter.com/prweekuknews/s…
About 5 days ago
Follow @spirusmarketing
Copyright © 2017 Spirus.
