Home - Occupied
Occupiedto destroy is to build
Formerly, this website belonged to The Occupied Times of London. Though they abandon the site and went to another new domain. Today they can be found on theoccupiedtimes.org. The Occupied Times of London is the independent newspaper of; as well as for the London occupations. The paper was born on the St Paul’s site during the Occupy London in 2011; and is still folded at the Finsbury Square site by occupiers.
The main aims of the numerous publications. Then was to inform and provoke debate amongst people taking part in the London occupations. However, today the paper aims to fight for social, economic and environmental justice. The first publication was distributed on Wednesday October 26, 2011.
But the Occupied Times wasn’t only for occupiers at the time of commencing. But aimed to educate and inspire people in the society to seek social justice. Thus, it was also distributed to members of the public; as well as the occupiers.
The Occupied Times was not the official voice of Occupy London. Rather, it was a platform for a variety of voices from within the movement. But also for intelligent comment on the movement from outside. Or for ideas relevant to its various related causes.
By taking the issues that inspired this movement and the debates; which are being had within it. Also, making them the subjects of our pages; Occupied Times aimed to assist the movement in reaching a wider audience. While informing its participants.
There are many social injustices which we face in today’s world. They range from abuse and neglect to wars and genocide. Any form of social injustice needs to be addressed if at all we have to achieve equality in this world. However, this is a process; which takes time and calls for individual to dedicate themselves in fighting these forms of inequalities. I’d love to share my story; which inspired me to make a difference in the society.
Importance of good health care in community development
Good health is not only the absence of various types of stress disorders and diseases. But also social and mental well-being of people in a society and community; that’s according to World Health Organization (WHO). It enables us to be productive in the society and hence be at a position to build a vibrant economy which uplifts the living standards of people in the society. To achieve this goal, improvements of health facilities in communities. Rural communities should be initiated especially.
Back in 2010 as a mother to my loving daughter; who lives and works away in the city; I traveled to see her because she had given birth to my first grandson. On my second day of the visit, my daughter (who was a nutritionist) told me that she had noticed that I had lost quite a considerable amount of weight. I thought she was joking. But defended myself by explaining to her that rural life was a bit harsh.
I even told her jokingly that since my retirement; I had decided to go on a low-carb diet to avoid lifestyle disorders and diseases.  Although she bought the story she advised me to go for a proper medical checkup since I was now in the city. The doctor who was checking me noticed some swollen lymph nodes on my left armpit; as well as inquired the last time when I had gone for my routine mammogram. I told him; but he seemed not convinced. He recommended that I needed to see a radiologist for further checkup. That’s when a lump was noticed on my left breast.
The news was quiet shocking
I was instructed to book an appointment; so that an MRI could be carried out. I called my daughter to pick me at the hospital and discussed with her the predicament.
Three days later, I was back at the hospital where a MRI test was conducted. I was found to be having breast cancer stage IIA.
I’ve decided to bring this website back to life and I will be publishing interesting content; which pertains to various forms of injustices that humans face in the world. Along with ideas on different techniques that keep your body in great condition. Already there are some interesting articles that I’ve published. They can be accessed by clicking through the various topics below.
Recent Posts
Human Rights and Addressing the Impact of Sexual Injustices
Violence in Life… What To Do and How to Solve It
Children Rights and The Need to Fight For Them
Social Justice and Community Empowerment in the Society
What the radiologist had discussed with me
He was talking to me about the management procedures of the condition. I decided to go home and talk to my daughter about the options; which we had discussed. The next day I went back to the hospital and met the health specialist. I told him I agreed to the procedures on offer to cure my illness; which involved surgical removal of the lump, radiation therapy as well as chemotherapy. That would take a period of six to ten months depending on my prognosis. The news was hard hitting to my family and friends. But I will admit the hospital had lovely staff; who prepared us for the worst well. They were also very positive on the outcome.
They began managing the tumor that very week; which was torturous throughout the nine months that I underwent the management process. I lost much weight during this period. But I’m grateful for my daughter; who helped me stick to special diet and a local cancer support community; who supported me emotionally through this period. Nine months later, I was completely healed and ready to head back to the rural area; which I had visited juts a couple of times during my treatment.
Making a difference to people in the society
Back home, I knew that the local health care center could have missed the lump during my routine mammogram. This was because the center was ill-equipped. I wanted to lobby to the county health official to address the situation. But I felt that those would be futile efforts. I also didn’t have the energy for all that.
However, I decided to establish a network of other cancer victims and survivors. We started addressing issues of cancer as we sought ways to access funds to equip the local health care center. I was willing to donate part of my retirement benefits towards the course; and so were other members. Our actions didn’t go unnoticed. Because of this, a local NGO decided to be part of the course; by helping us raise funds to equip the health care centers.
My Nana was in all sorts of support communities.
Same with mine! Maybe they were friends.
Just a reminder that mammogramming your boobs is more important than Instagramming them!
Copyright © 2017 · Log in
