Prism | Specialists in buying and selling technology businesses
Home
Services
About
Experience
Events
All Future Events
March 2017
June 2017
October 2017
December 2017
1-to-1 Clinics
News & Articles
Contact
Home
Services
About
Experience
Events
All Future Events
March 2017
June 2017
October 2017
December 2017
1-to-1 Clinics
News & Articles
Contact
THE SPECIALISTS IN
Buying and Selling Technology Businesses
Prism Corporate Broking is a highly experienced company specialising in helping technology business owners to buy and sell businesses.
WHO WE ARE
Sell a Technology Business
Prism has years of experience of selling technology businesses and provides a highly personalised service from exit decision planning right through to post-deal completion.
READ MORE
Buy a Technology Business
Prism’s specific focus on the sector gives it a unique position in advising on all aspects of acquisitions from initial strategic planning and target evaluation to deal negotiations, completion and beyond.
READ MORE
WHY CHOOSE
Prism Corporate Broking
PROFESSIONAL
Highly experienced
business people
The Prism team consists of seasoned professionals each with over 10 years’ experience of buying and selling businesses in the technology sector.
ONE-TO ONE
Personal and
tailored approach
Every assignment differs; governed by each individual client’s objectives and the nature of their business. Our dedicated approach allows us to mould the process to fit. This is just one of reasons that clients like the way we work.
TECHNOLOGY FOCUS
Impressive technology experience
Prism focuses exclusively on the technology sector, combining detailed market knowledge with relevant deal experience to maximise the value clients receive.
VALUE INSIGHT
Focused analysis and advice
Prism understands the value drivers in technology businesses – from the perspective of both buyers and sellers.
MARKET VALUATIONS
Realistic market-led valuations
We believe in market valuation. We create competition which in turn drives up valuations.
TARGETED RESEARCH
Extensive database,
well-networked
We are dedicated to finding you the right buyer or seller and utilise our experience, plus comprehensive research and profiling capabilities, to ensure we can identify synergies.
RIGHT RESULT
Secure the right price
and deal structure
Our strong negotiating skills help to ensure that your objectives are met, whilst allowing you to maintain a good relationship with the target company.
NO HIDDEN FEES
Transparent fee structure
We are paid primarily upon success – clearly aligning our goals with yours.
Talk to us
Take the next step and arrange a confidential and no obligation meeting.
Arrange a Meeting
Technology Newsletter
Subscribe to our Technology Newsletter to receive the latest news, articles and handy tips about maximising the value of your technology business when preparing for sale, or when making an acquisition. These are emailed approximately once per month – and rest assured, we never share your contact details with third parties.
Name *
Email *
Company Name
CONTACT US
+44 (0)1638 743 123
info@prismcorporatebroking.com
Prism Corporate Broking, The Maltings, Burwell, Cambridge, CB25 0HB, UK
Prism Corporate Broking Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
© 2016 Prism Corporate Broking Limited - Registered in England & Wales, Company No: 04825898All rights reserved | Privacy Policy
Website by Twin Dots
