Strategic Performance Management Experts | 2GC
Solutions
Strategy ImplementationPerformance ManagementBalanced ScorecardTraining
What we do
ServicesToolsFocus Areas
Our Survey
Who We Are
About UsAbout Our ClientsAbout Our Partners
Resources
Case Studies
FAQs
Blog
Presentations
Reading
Research
Software Database
Weblinks
Contact Us
Our survey results are now available - follow the link for your free download!
The 2016 Survey results are in!
Find out more
Strategy and performance management issues? We have the solutions.
Expert guidance
Find out more
Performance Management - actively identifying and managing what matters.
Bringing clarity
Find out more
Balanced Scorecards designed with you and for you. 2GC methods are effective.
Enabling focus
Find out more
Strategy implementation is tough. Do it right the first time with our proven processes.
Get the balance right
Find out more
Training - from introduction to expert. Learn to use proven methods in your organisation.
Benefit from our experience
Find out more
Balanced Scorecard
Strategy Implementation
Performance Management
2GC Active Management a strategic performance management consultancy
We provide
consultancy and
services
We work with organisations of all types and sizes.
We are multilingual. We travel.
We run a variety of standard and custom training courses on subjects related to the areas we work in.
Find out more about:
Our capabilities
The services we offer
Our training courses
We are experts at what we do
We know about the latest ideas in strategy implementation and performance management.
We have written a wide range of articles, FAQs and case studies about these topics that you can download for free.
We also run a unique annual survey concerning Balanced Scorecard usage.
To find out more, visit:
Our Resource Centre
Our annual Balanced Scorecard Usage Survey
We love to communicate
We like to share our knowledge. As well as our free resources, we deliver a monthly update on 2GC activities and the wider performance management world which you can subscribe to below. Or ask us a question (as long as it isn't coursework)!
Get in touch with us directly via our contact page
Follow us on social media
Sign up for our regular email newsletter
Your work lived up to our high expectations in terms of deliverables and process.
Director of Strategy
Zamil Air Conditioning
We selected 2GC above all for their experience in this field and practical application of their considerable knowledge and expertise. This was apparent from the invitation to tender through to the completion of the scorecards some weeks later. Gimmick and jargon-free, we found 2GC’s approach was one of practical assistance, guidance and knowledge transfer.
Quality Manager
A&O Systems
2GC can get you to a place where the accountable leadership team has developed and owns a vision for the strategy.
Performance Manager
BP Lubricants
2GC can get you to a place where the key actions with owners and the measures by which the management team can track progress have been identified and can be communicated.
Performance Manager
BP Lubricants
The other thing we appreciate is the good overall support from 2GC. You are not just left on your own when the workshops are done.
Strategy Manager
Middle East Financial Services
Leaders in Strategic Performance Management since 1999
International Experience
World Class Expertise
Cutting edge Understanding
Responsive to your Requirements
Copyright © 2GC Limited 2016. All Rights Reserved.
Legal Stuff
Sitemap
Contact
