Home | Corporate Alchemy
Register
Login
Contact 01707 322500
☰ Menu
Home
Our Services
Executive Coaching
Leadership and Development
Talent Development
360 Feedback
Psychometrics
Consultancy
Igniting Talent
How We Help
Our Approach
Case Studies
Enlightened Leaders
Enlightened Leaders Circle
Resources
Recommended Books Part 1
Recommended Books Part 2
Recommended Books Part 3
Recommended Books Part 4
Recommended Books Part 5
Recommended Books Part 6
About Us
Contact Us
Our Clients
Testimonials
Articles
Home
Is your business being stalled by conflicts?
Are you a business leader struggling to deal with clashes in the relationships of your executive team and unable to build consensus, or a cohesive direction?
We work with you to bring your team together for open and honest conversations, developing deeper insights, vision and strategy; through organisational audits, reviewing and agreeing accountabilities, rhythm and action plans. We help you solve the real issues at the heart of your executive team and expedite your way forward.
"The Corporate Alchemy programme has been of great benefit to our company both in terms of “imaging” what the future might look like for us if we are brave enough and facilitating the improvement in the Board team dynamics.”
Bruno Miglio, CEO, FMDC Limited
Get in touch…
Are you struggling to grow your business?
You may have a clear vision and strategy, but are unclear on how to upscale your business. How do you engage your people when they can’t see what you see and keep morale and motivation high when difficulties arise?
Our talent development workshops reveal the strengths available in your team members, building trust, accountability and motivation; they set up the systems to deliver your company’s value. We help you focus and communicate your purpose, principles and mission, to create cultures that engage your people, build trust, cause flow and fast growth.
“We are more than pleased. The results exceeded our expectations… The money was well spent, I’d estimate we’ve benefited from a ten times return on our investment overall.”
Practise Leader, Arup, London
Get in touch…
Are you at a cross roads in your career?
Are you mid-career, struggling with self-doubt, lacking self-confidence and uncertain about what to do next? Worrying about whether you should go for promotion or to look outside for a new role?
Our career development coaching deepens people’s awareness of their talents and strengths and the unique value they deliver to their work. You come to know clearly what to stop doing and what to focus on for greater success, flow and enjoyment. We provide clarity and support whilst you prepare for promotion or going for a new role.
“Your insightful comments and probing questions .. have undoubtedly helped me to develop a much stronger understanding of my personal values, attitudes, strengths and preferences .. this has led to me adopting goals and strategies for increasing my sense of fulfilment not just with work, but life in general.”
Simon Morgan, Director, City & Guilds
Get in touch…
How do you develop people?
Are you unsure of what tools, training and coaching support your people need? Who can deliver the quality and high standards of experiential learning that will engage your staff, enthuse them and ensure that their new perceptions are embedded and applied in your business?
We grow people through experiential talent development and leadership programmes that expedite skills growth and deliver confidence, principled thinking, increased productivity and performance. Team coaching that creates high performing teams and enlightened cultures that empower people.
“Penny provided Executive Coaching services for me in my learning roles at Unilever and at The Body Shop. She successfully supported high potential middle and senior management marketing profiles.”
Kevin Hitchmough, AVP Learning for Development, L'Oreal USA
Get in touch…
Introduction to Corporate Alchemy
Download the first 3 chapters of Penny's Book. FREE!
Email Address
First Name
Last Name
Contact Us Want to discuss what we can do for you and your organisation?
Call us on 01707 322500 to talk over your needs.
Download the first 3 chapters of Penny's Book. FREE!
Email Address
First Name
Last Name
Contact Us Want to discuss what we can do for you and your organisation?
Call us on 01707 322500 to talk over your needs.
INSPIRING REFLECTIONS Happiness is that state of consciousness which proceeds from the achievement of one's values.
Ayn Rand
Tel: 01707 322500
Email: penny@corpalc.com
