Pitching for Management
This website uses cookies to track and improve visitors experience -
I accept your cookie policy
Home
Email us
Call: 01749 344 888
020 7720 1102
Find out more...
UK platform helping you find your management team:
A unique and efficient way to find quality Management, Directors or Advisors for your business
A friendly and informal platform focused solely on helping you kick-start your company growth
Exciting positions in early-stage companies for senior level business professionals and value-add investors
Unrivalled networking opportunities - check out our testimonials page to see for yourself
What is it all about?
What's coming next?
TEST
Pitching for Management is a platform where innovative exciting companies pitch their businesses to an audience of experienced, talented business professionals who are looking for a new challenge and thrive on the buzz of working within entrepreneurial companies.
We are for:
- Entrepreneurs with great businesses that needs an extra skill-set to grow
- Experienced Professionals looking for new and exciting roles or a career challenge - Value-add Business Angels wanting to work with exciting innovative companies - Serial Entrepreneurs seeking a new venture to be a part of.
Luke Johnson, serial angel investor, says: “Almost every venture capitalist I know says that the most important factor in any investment is the management.”
AND IT WORKS!
Check out our success stories and testimonials page to see for yourself!
Pitching 4 Management is working with The Pluralists Club to bring together new business opportunities with successful people seeking to invest their and expertise or money in exciting young companies.
The Pluralists Club is for people pursuing a Plural or portfolio career, or who wish to pursue one. Our members are people like you - investors, entrepreneurs, business owners, experienced high-level professionals and philanthropists, all of whom want to make use of their hard-earned knowledge in new, challenging and rewarding ways.
For more information on The Pluralists Club please visit www.thepluralists.club or email enquiries@thepluralists.club.
Home
About
Dates and Locations
Success Stories
Partners
FAQs
Contact Us
Roles Wanted
Roles On Offer
Copyright Pitching for Management | Affordable Web Design
