Amiho LoRa LoRaWAN WMBus experts
+ 44 1223 422345
info@amiho.co.uk
LinkedIn
Google+
Twitter
Facebook
RSS
Products
LoRa, LoRaWAN and Wireless M-Bus Modules at 169 and 868 MHz
Software Stacks
Evaluation Kits
Bare Metal Modules
Lighting and Control
IP and Design Services
Applications
Smart Metering
Internet of Things – Connected Devices
Building and Home Automation
Custom & Wireless M-Bus Integrators
About us
Background
The Board
Technology Partners
Careers
Technology
LoRa®
LoRaWAN™
Wireless Meter-Bus
News and Events
News
Events
Blog
White papers
Embedded World 2016 Presentation
FAQs
Contact Us
Have you seen our 868 MHz LoRa and Wireless M-Bus Module?See the AM094 datasheet here »
Receive Wireless Meter-Bus and transmit LoRa
Only with AMIHO's unique bridging application »
Go Long Range with LoRa for Smart Metering and IoT
»
Connecting Every Thing for an Everything-Connected World
AMIHO Technology provides production-ready wireless products for the Smart Meter, Smart Buildings and IoT markets. Our radio modules contain our own fully-featured software stacks and can be tailored for almost any SMART, M2M or IoT application requiring wireless connectivity. Example customer deployments include:
Smart meter trials,
IoT Gateway products,
Asset tracking
Air quality monitoring
Tunnel communications
Lightning detectors
Smart parking
AMIHO’s product range includes EN13757 compliant Wireless Meter-Bus (Wireless M-Bus) and LoRa® enabled radio modules and software stacks and we are members of the LoRa® Alliance. LoRa® technology extends the radio range to several kilometres and enables communication with hard to reach meters and devices.
Read More »
Products
AMIHO enables you to get your wireless application quickly to trial. The easy-to-use hardware modules have sufficient memory to run your own applications and footprint efficient wireless stacks have simple interfaces and integrate efficiently into your system.
We deliver a range of Wireless M-Bus and LoRa radio modules with a fully-featured custom developed software stack.
Find out more about our radio modules
Evaluate our products
Software and Services
AMIHO Technology’s products can be implemented across a diverse array of systems to enable reliable wireless connectivity that is both secure and simple to set-up.  Small code size of our stacks and efficient use of processor and radio resources also helps to ensure years of maintenance free, battery powered operations.
In addition, AMIHO provides a range of expert professional services that feature support and development contracts to help you transition efficiently from product prototypes through to mass rollout.
Find out more about our software stacks
Development and support services
News and Events
’17 so far so great: Amiho at E-World Essen, Germany
February 10, 2017
Next stop EUW Barcelona, 15-17 November
October 11, 2016
Which LPWA?
October 6, 2016
AMIHO sponsoring NXP Tech Day, Poland
September 19, 2016
AMIHO announces New Bridging Function between LoRa and Wireless Meter-Bus
July 12, 2016
Sign up for our Monthly Newsletter
Questions? Please see our FAQ page
Copyright © 2017 AMIHO Technology
Registered in England No. 8398544
|
VAT No. 156 7715 81
