KATE ATKIN Inspirational and Motivational Speaker
Already helped thousands of people increase their confidence and improve their performance
Call Kate:
+44 7779 646 976
Home
About
Imposter Phenomenon
Women in Leadership
Videos
Clients
Clients
Testimonials
Articles
Press
Blog
Shop
Products
Cart
My Account
Checkout
Checkout → Pay
Logout
Terms and Conditions
Contact
Looking for an inspirational speaker?
See Kate in action
Kate delivers keynotes, workshops and seminars on the imposter syndrome (which is really a phenomenon...), confidence and presenting with impact. These can be tailored for women in or seeking a leadership position, or for a mixed gender audience.
TRAINING
The impact of training in the softer skills is often under-estimated.
For management and leadership, there is nothing soft about the changes that you will make after attending a workshop by Kate Atkin. An enthusiastic and energetic trainer, Kate ensures you find the messages practical and applicable by employing a mix of Positive Leadership, Accelerated Learning, NLP and intuition.Kate is also qualified to deliver the Myers–Briggs_Type_Indicator (MBTI), CAPP R2 Strengths Finder and Extended DISC assessments.Download Kate's
Course Brochure.
SPEAKING
As an inspirational and motivational speaker, Kate really enjoys connecting with people by speaking at live events.
My most recent talk 'Success: what lies behind the Mask?' covers an exploration of courage, confidence and the imposter phenomenon.
It can be tailored to suit your event.Other topics include: The Science of Happiness; Image, Impact and Influence; Presenting Confidently Find out more by contacting Kate on 07779 646 976 or kate@kateatkin.com
COACHING
Executive coaching is a recognised way of improving workplace skills.
An experienced coach, Kate listens first and employs deep questioning techniques to challenge your assumptions.
She then helps you identify ways to move forward.
Each coaching session culminates in developing a plan of action.Beginning with identifying your strengths, Kate formulates a coaching programme to suit you.
Kate has particular experience and skills in presentation skills coaching.Contact Kate on 07779 646 976 or kate@kateatkin.com for an informal, no-obligation conversation.
FACILITATION
Have you ever wondered how to make your key meetings more effective, your away days more productive and stop procrastination? Using Kate as your external facilitator lets you do just that. Kate's facilitation approach uses appreciative inquiry, which helps you identify what works well, understand the key issues and encourages discussion so everyone feels involved and aids understanding.
Taking a strength-based approach also benefits teams as Kate is a trained facilitator for the R2 Team Profile with CAPP http://www.cappeu.com/R2StrengthsProfiler Contact Kate for more details on 07779 646976 or kate@kateatkin.com
Women in Leadership event I'm pleased to announce that I'll be co-hosting the first event of a new Women in Leadership programme on 16th March in Cambridge.
The event is open to all and is designed to support women who want to increase their business impact and move into a senior management or board position.
More details here.
Newsletter Sign up for Kate's occasional newsletter
Your Name (required)
Your Email (required)
Recent Posts
I have some feedback for you…
How fast should you speak?
Networking – love it or loathe it?
Women’s place in the Olympics
Time to find a ‘Sod All’ box?
© Kate Atkin
This site uses cookies:
Find out more.Okay, thanks
