AstraZeneca - Research-Based BioPharmaceutical Company
Skip to content
skip to navigation
Cookie Policy
This website uses cookies to help us give you the best experience when you visit.
By using this website you consent to our use of these cookies.
Find out more about how we use cookies and how to manage them by reading our cookie notice.
Close
Search
Menu
Search
Search
Search
Close
What science can do
What science can do
Our people
LabTalk
Our technology
Our science
Our science
Pipeline
Publications
Cambridge
Gothenburg
Gaithersburg
IMED Biotech Unit
MedImmune
Global Medicines Developement
Our focus areas
Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases
Oncology
Respiratory
Inflammation and Autoimmunity
Neuroscience
Infection and Vaccines
All focus areas
All medicines
Our company
Our company
Our strategy
Leadership team
Careers
Careers
Global careers site
Investors
Investor Relations
Results and presentations
Key facts
For investors
FAQs
Corporate governance
Dividend policy
Debt Investors
Stock Exchange announcements
Partnering
Partnering
Partnering case studies
Get in touch
Media
Media centre
Image library
Broadcast videos
Articles
Press Releases
Archive
Medical Releases
Sustainability
Sustainability
Environmental sustainability
Access to healthcare
Ethical business practices
Responsible research
Great place to work
Governance
More
Hide
AstraZeneca Websites
Global site
Where science meets the patient
Read more
AstraZeneca scientists set to create ‘Google Earth’ of cancer tumours
ARTICLE
Bahija Jallal of MedImmune named 2017 Woman of the Year by the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association
Science is at the heart of everything we do.
What drives you today?
Ground-breaking science
Career opportunities
To partner with AstraZeneca
Investor information
Ground-breaking science
It’s amazing what you can achieve with the right science – when combined with technology at an industrialised scale we fuel the medicines discovery pipeline.
Paul Harper, Associate Principal Scientist, Discovery Sciences, IMED Biotech Unit
Meet our people
Publications
Our innovative science means a strong track-record of publication in peer-reviewed journals, contributing to the foundation of scientific advancement.
View our publications
We have
132
projects in our pipeline
View pipeline
CoLAB High Throughput Screening System
Explore our technology
Our new facility in Cambridge will be an open, welcoming and vibrant centre
Explore all our science centres
Corporate Press Release
Updated durvalumab monotherapy data confirm results in urothelial bladder cancer
17 February 2017
Corporate press release
Lynparza meets primary endpoint in Phase III trial in BRCA-mutated metastatic breast cancer
17 February 2017
Our science
At AstraZeneca, science is at the core of everything we do. But more than that, science is who we are.
Learn more
Career opportunities
There is an expanding universe of biological data available which can revolutionise our understanding of disease and therapy if we find innovative ways to share and explore it.
Jonathan Dry, Principal Scientist, Bioinformatics, Oncology, Innovative Medicines & Early Development
Meet our people
Acoustic mass spectrometer platform
Explore our technology
Three
strategic science centres
Our research sites are collaborative, innovative and dynamic environments that allow our scientists to keep pushing the boundaries
Find our about our science
Inhibiting stages in the DNA damage response pathway
Read more of our stories
Our focus areas
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
Oncology
Respiratory
Inflammation and autoimmunity
Neuroscience
Infection and Vaccines
AstraZeneca job search
At AstraZeneca we are guided in our work by a strong set of values, and we’re resetting expectations of what a bio-pharmaceutical company can be. If you’re inspired by the possibilities of science to make a difference and ready to discover what you can do – join us.
Search for a job now
Start a career that will help improve life for millions.
Learn more about our School/College Student, Undergraduate, Graduate and Post Doctorate programmes with us in our Early Careers page.
Find your early career now
Working at AstraZeneca
We need great people who share our passion for science and have the drive and determination to meet the unmet needs of patients around the world. Find out more about our teams and the work they do.
Find out more on the careers section
To partner with AstraZeneca
I often say being in Business Development is having the best job in AstraZeneca in terms of the motivation, interest and challenging work we do with incredibly smart people from science and business on projects that really make a difference for our partners and patients.
Shaun Grady, Vice-President Business Development Operations
See our partnering contacts
Horizon Discovery and AstraZeneca: searching for novel, personalised cancer therapies
See more partnering case studies
Partnering with us
We partner with like-minded organisations and pursue a range of different types of opportunities that are aligned with our portfolio and areas of expertise.
Learn more about our areas of interest
Open Innovation
Our Open Innovation platform is designed to foster open innovation partnerships spanning all stages of drug discovery and development.
Learn more on the Open Innovation site
Siliq (brodalumab) approved by the US FDA for adult patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis
16 February 2017
Corporate Press Release
AstraZeneca completes agreement With Cilag GmbH International for rights to Rhinocort Aqua outside the US
5 December 2016
Collaborate with us
The best science doesn't happen in isolation.
Visit our partnering section
Investor information
2017 is set to be a defining year for the company as we bring new medicines to patients across the globe.
Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
Meet our people
Latest presentation
Full-Year and Q4 2016 Results
View quarterly results
Financial calendar
Find all the latest dates for ex-dividends, investor roadshows and more
See all key dates
LATEST FINANCIAL INFORMATION
See all the results and presentations
Read the latest Annual Report (2015)
Stock exchange announcements
Find all the latest announcements from the stock exchange
View latest announcements
Corporate Press Release
Updated durvalumab monotherapy data confirm results in urothelial bladder cancer
17 February 2017
Corporate Press Release
Full-Year and Q4 2016 Results
2 February 2017
Investors
Find out more about investing in AstraZeneca, everything from investor relations to dividend policies.
Visit our investor relations
AstraZeneca Websites
This website is intended for people seeking information on AstraZeneca's worldwide business. Our country sites can be located in the AZ Network. Website Atlas ID: 1017655.011Date of next review: October 2017
Resources
All resources
Open Innovation
Externally sponsored scientific research
MedImmune
US prescription assistance programmes
Global clinical trials information
Medicines
Quick links
Media
Investor Relations
Partnering
Careers
Sustainability
Social Media
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Legal notice and Terms of Use
Privacy notice
Cookie policy
Site map
Contact us
© AstraZeneca 2017
You are now leaving AstraZeneca.com
You have selected a link that will take you to a site maintained by a third party who is solely responsible for its contents.
AstraZeneca provides this link as a service to website visitors. AstraZeneca is not responsible for the privacy policy of any third party websites. We encourage you to read the privacy policy of every website you visit.
Click ‘cancel’ to return to AstraZeneca’s site or ‘continue’ to proceed.
Cancel
Continue
?
Important notice for users
You are about to access AstraZeneca historic archive material. Any reference in these archives to AstraZeneca products or their uses may not reflect current medical knowledge and should not be used as a source of information on the present product label, efficacy data or safety data. Please refer to your approved national product label (SmPC) for current product information.
I have read this warning and will not be using any of the contained product information for clinical purposes.
I disagree
I agree
?
?
