Beautiful setting to meet, eat and celebrate - Bedern Hall York
Meet, Eat and Celebrate in the heart of York
Skip to content
Home
Weddings
Business
Dining
What’s on
Forthcoming Events
Your Local Lunch
News
About
Meet the team
History
Bedern Hall Foundation
Bedern Hall Guilds
How to find us
Hiring the Hall
Celebrations & Events
Group Visits
Volunteering
Contact & booking
Celebrations & Events
We host a variety of completely exclusive events from special occasions such as birthdays and christenings to wine tastings, afternoon tea and pie & ale nights. Find out more….
Your wedding
We offer an intimate setting with the perfect combination of tradition, elegance and individuality to give you a happy and memorable day. Find out more…
Business Meetings at Bedern
Our conference room is the ideal setting for your meeting or business event, providing a unique, stimulating work environment in a historical setting. Find out more…
Home
For over 30 years Bedern Hall has been the setting for people to meet, eat and celebrate; to mark special occasions and to enjoy the sense of place which this amazing building and its history create.
Bedern Hall Company operates as a Non-Profit; so when you hold an event with us the charges you pay go straight back into the preservation of the Hall. So not only can you enjoy your day with us, but you will also be helping to allow others to do so in the future.
Since 1992 Director Roger Lee and his staff at ‘Time & Place Catering’ have provided imaginative menus for all kinds of events at the Hall. Roger is happy to discuss your ideas and over the years has created special dishes to ensure that your event is just as you envisaged.
Our small but professional team, led by Dining and Event Manager Elly Richmond, will take care of arrangements; this is our business and it’s important to us that your event is a success.
Bedern Hall is pleased to support a number of local heritage, cultural, charitable and voluntary sector organisations. By providing such groups with affordable meeting space and helping them organise events we help our City to grow.
These groups include Shopmobility York, York Design Awards, York Festival Trust (York Mystery Plays), York Shakespeare Project, Association of Voluntary Guides.
Learn how you can support our vision
Your Local Lunch
Join our events list
Bedern Hall enjoys success at Yorkshire tourism awards.
Home | Bedern Hall, Bartle Garth, St Andrewgate, York, YO1 7AL | Tel: (+44) 01904 646030 | Email: info@bedernhall.co.uk
