Scientific Alliance | Challenging and informed scientific debate
Skip navigation
Home
News
About Scientific Alliance
Events
Newsletter
Contact Us
Land Use/Agriculture
Even complex societies ultimately depend on farming for survival. Today, agriculture is also increasingly supplying raw materials for industry. How do we balance the increasing demands on land with the needs of wildlife and our desire for an attractive countryside?
GM letter: The Times, 20 May 2016
The Green Revolution and its Consequences
Britons are developing a taste for GM crops
LEARN MORE
Energy & Climate Change
Energy security is vital both to maintain the way of life in industrialised societies and to improve the lives of people in developing countries. But our use of fossil fuels is blamed for climate change. What are the real issues and solutions?
The impossible dream of UK solar power
An examination of National Grid's Future Energy Scenarios - Cost of Supply
An examination of National Grid's Future Energy Scenarios - Security of Supply
LEARN MORE
Transport/Infrastructure
People today travel more and over longer distances, both for work and pleasure, than earlier generations ever dreamed of. This means that more of both rural and urban areas are devoted to fulfilling the need. How do we reconcile the freedom to travel with impact on the environment?
Electric Avenue: Letter in The Times, 29 June 2016
Space Cadets
Eco-friendly flying
LEARN MORE
Share
Email
Print
Welcome to the Scientific Alliance
The Scientific Alliance is a non-profit membership-based organisation bringing together both scientists and non-scientists committed to rational discussion and debate on the challenges facing the environment today.To read about our current campaigns, please click on any of the links above. These will lead you to our campaign information, articles, news, press releases and comments areas.
Current Issues
Future costs of UK energy supply
The Scientific Alliance recently published part 1 of an examination of
National Grid's Future Energy Scenarios, dealing with security of supply. We are now pleased to publish part 2 - cost of supply. The authors - Dr Capell Aris and Colin Gibson - conclude that building more gas and nuclear stations would be considerably less expensive than any of the NG scenarios, as well as offering better energy security.
Scientific Alliance Scotland
The Scientific Alliance Scotland is the Edinburgh-based, Scottish branch of the Scientific Alliance. Find out more →
What's New
14 October 2016: Read the new report by Dr Capell Aris, published jointly with the Adam Smith Institute - Solar power in Britain: the Impossible Dream
Read Our News
Keep up to speed with the debate, subscribe to the RSS Feed.
Newsletter
Read our latest Newsletter here.
Sign up to our Newsletter.
Join Us
Get involved, become part of the debate, become a member today.
Events
Find out about events and debates.
Support Us
Sign up to our declaration, contribute to the campaign or make a donation.
HOME
Events
About Us
Contact Us
ABOUT US
Scientific Advisory Forum
Key Principles
Key Aims
Declaration
SUPPORT US
Become a Member
Contribute to our Campaigns
Make a Donation
Sign up to our Declaration
Land Use / Agriculture
The Debate
Scientific Alliance Position
Our Opinions
In The News
ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE
The Debate
Scientific Alliance Position
Our Opinions
In the news
TRANSPORT & INFRASTRUCTURE
The Debate
Scientific Alliance Position
Our Opinions
In the news
FOLLOW US
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
© Scientific Alliance 2010 - Legal and Privacy Information
|
Site Map
