Brand Communications Limited | Communications at Layer2
Login | Register
Search
Main menu
Products System Architecture
Features & Benefits
Apollo Anywhere Server
Apollo Management Server
Apollo Anywhere Client Software
Technology Mobile Security
Seamless Roaming
Session Management
Bandwidth Bonding
Asset Management
VLAN
VoIP Phone
Automatic Updates
Customer Reporting
Resources Videos
Whitepapers
Customer Support
Case Studies
Customer Testimonials
About Us
Efficient Network Bonding through Software Defined NetworksAllowing mutliple networks to be securely aggregated together for improved bandwidth capacity and resilience for data communications. Read MoreSeamless Integration of Wireless TechnologiesOffering reliable real-time network access whilst moving through different environments such as Wifi, GPRS, 3G, 4G LTE and Wimax, HSDPA, Tetra, DVB & GSM networks. Read MoreMobile Security Challenge
Brand is providing secure seamless mobility solutions including endpoint data security and encryption features and provides organisations with first class defence security. Read MoreSecure, Flexible Mobile Access for UtilitiesBrand is helping many utilities improve the business effectiveness of field service employees through the adoption of mobile data. Read MoreWireless Communications for High Speed Data LinksDelivering seamless, uninterrupted communications between train and trackside systems. Read moreMobile Data is the enabler for officer efficiency and performance Read more
Secure "Anywhere" Mobile Connectivity
The Brand Apollo Solution provides companies with mobile communications middleware functionality.
Apollo is a mobile VPN product, which provides secure connectivity over multiple communications channels.
Brand Apollo's unique session managment and seamless roaming features enhance the usability of mobile communications.
Tel: +44 (0)1480 442100
Fax: +44 (0)1480 442153
contact@brandcomms.com
1
Seamless Experience
The ability to move between different wireless access environments is a essential but challenging problem for mobile users.
The key to Brand's technology is the global seamless roaming which overcomes wireless network, geographical coverage limitations, low throughput & high latency problems.
Read More
2
Ubiquitous Mobility
Today, Mobile Workers need the ability to communicate anywhere, anytime and have the ability to seamlessly roam between networks and carriers without interruption. Brand provides ubiquitous connectivity to the remote user, independent of the devices and connection technologies for an “always connected” solution.
Read More
3
Bandwidth Bonding
Bandwidth bonding is designed to utilise the bandwidth of multiple device connections simultaneously giving you superior mobile connectivity.
The Apollo solution aggregates all the wireless connections of bandwidth together such as 3G, Wifi, WiMAX and broadband to form a single virtual pipe.
Read More
Mobilising the Enterprise
Brand has considerable experience in working with, and supplying infrastructure to utilities, enterprises and Telco networks.
Its solutions have been proven all over the world and are critical to many corporate businesses on a daily basis.
Utilities
Public Safety
Government
Healthcare
Field Service
The Brand Solution delivers many unique factors to various business sectors
Read More
Newsletter Subscription
Keep yourself informed about our latest product developments, current events and activities.
*
About Brand Communications Limited
Brand Communications is a global leader in mobile data and remote access solutions for all environments including ISDN, PSTN, GSM, Tetra, Satellite, WLAN, WiMAX, GPRS, 3G, HSPA and LTE.
Know More
Brand Customer
Utilities
Public Safety
Field Service
Healthcare
Brand Support
Overview
Support Plans
Specifications
Contact Support
Brand Partners
Overview
Partner Program
Alliances
Becoming a Partner
Brand Services
Implementations
Strategic Consulting
Training
Managed Services
Address
Brand Communications Limited
Trinity House, Ermine Business Park
Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire
PE29 6XY
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1480 442100
Fax: +44 (0)1480 442153
Email: contact@brandcomms.com
Web: www.brandcomms.com
Contact Page
Secondary menuTerms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
© Copyright 2001-2013 Brand Communications Limited - All Rights Reserved
×
Contact
Contact
Name *
Phone *
Email Address *
Message *
CAPTCHAThis question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
What code is in the image? *
Enter the characters shown in the image.
Log in to post comments
close
