Burnt Orange Designs | Bespoke software development services
Burnt Orange Designs
Home
About
Services
Case Studies
Contact Us
Menu
bespoke software develoment
Software - better by design
What do we do?
We design and write software to meet the exact needs of your organisation, from the unusual (we recently wrote a web site that lets musicians create lyric and music image slides for use with a “teleprompter”) - to the complex (an entire suite of back-office and web applications for a leading ophthalmic lens manufacturer).
We question & we listen.  We get to understand your business and what you want to achieve.
We design, solve problems and recommend solutions - without the techno-babble.
We will partner you - delivering your software and making sure it works as you need it to.
"Burnt Orange undertook a major full-time software project for my company, Jai Kudo, that stretched over two years. Jerry Pett combines top-level programming skill with perspicacity and a total dedication to the task in hand. He also boasts a commercial sensibility absent in the vast majority of IT people"Jamie HoloranExecutive Managing Director - Jai Kudo"We needed to develop a new system to manage our business-critical applications and reporting. Burnt Orange has a knack of grasping operational requirements and genuinely proposing commercially sound solutions that meet customer requirements."Mark WilloughbyCommercial Director - RP Europe"We contacted Burnt Orange to see if they could help us with problems developing and deploying applications in our call centres. We received a rapid response, they quickly identified and resolved the problems we had. In addition Burnt Orange provided us with the information we needed to ensure we avoided any recurrence of the problem."Ben BennettService Delivery Manager - Phones 4U"Jerry Pett discussed with us our ideas and what we wanted to achieve rather than giving us a geeky lecture on the ins and outs of software and server platforms. Our bespoke software solution is now complete, on time and in budget. It is fantastic and looks and works exactly as we wanted it."Paul StaffordCommercial Director - Staffords on Stage / Staffords Office"Jerry Pett and his team at Burnt Orange excel in adding value to their clients. At Dial-a-Phone, they were critical in delivering technology solutions that were fundamental to our growth and success."Richard FrankJoint Chief Executive - Dial-a-Phone"I had to get a project completed in a very short time. Burnt Orange responded immediately, understanding both big picture issues and minor program level issues, as well as being excellent database engineers."Mark MilfordDirector - Milfords Software
Bendy Software
Why bend your business to fit your software?  At Burnt Orange we create and conceive software from inception that works the way you need it to.From top fashion eyewear and global telecommunications to employee engagement.
see our case studies +
Applications
At Burnt Orange we work with the conventional right through to the unexpected and avant garde, no matter what the business model. Discover some of the software applications we have built.
see our application areas +
Tweets by @JerryBODL
home
about us
case studies
services
applications
leadership
approach
contact us
privacy statement
useful resources
cambridge bespoke software development
City of Cambridge
Bespoke Software Development
Software Development
Microsoft
SQL Server
Windows Azure
Web Applications
copyright © 2017 burnt orange designs limited.  all rights reserved.
