Cloud, IVR & Virtual Contact Centre Solutions – Telephony Platforms
+44 (0)1223 427700 | info@c3.co.uk
About About C3 Blog Careers Partners Contact Us Contact Centres Contact Centre Platforms Multi Channel Virtual Call Centre Cloud Communications PCI Compliant Card Payments Payment Solutions Secure Assist Contact with PCI Repeat Card Payments eWallets & Online Portal Telephony Telephony Call Handling Services Fusion IVR Network Conferencing Gateway Call Recording Workforce Management Sectors Sectors Contact Centres Offshoring Contact Centre Payments Education Alumni Donations & Fundraising Clearing Housing Associations Choice Based Letting Helpdesks International Telecoms Deployment Secure Units Virtual Services Custom Testimonials Case Studies Client Testimonials
Multi-Channel Contact Centre Solutions
THE COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALISTS
Secure Telephone & Online Payments
PCI Compliant Solutions from the Experts
International Expertise
Telecommunications Deployments across 6 Continents
25 Years of
Excellence in Telecommunications
C3 - Telecommunications Specialists
Secure and Scalable Multichannel engagement solutions
Call Now!
or learn more.
Cloud, IVR, Virtual Contact Centre Solutions & Much More…
Who We Are
With a history of more than 25 years supplying specialist computer telephony platforms and associated applications, our proven solutions incorporate; Multi-Channel, Virtual and Cloud Contact Centres, IVR, Speech Recognition and PCI Compliant systems, as well as much more. Explore our website to view the full range of services we have available.
Our clients worldwide depend on our core technology-agnostic software to give their business an edge in the competitive markets they operate in, as well as helping them to overcome technical challenges that they may face. View our client testimonials and case studies to see how we have helped.Read More
Our Services
Contact Centre Platforms
Streamline your multiple communication channels with Contact, our Multi-Channel Contact Centre
solution. Fully integrate your voice, email, SMS, web chat and social media channels into one convenient platform.
Connect your call agents no matter where they are located with our Virtual Call Centre solution. Helping to support your businesses’ help desks and home based agents, whilst delivering a continued quality of service to your customers.
PCI Compliant Payments
Take the hassle out of taking payments with our popular PCI Compliant systems and solutions, enabling you to easily take payments directly via the phone, web and mobile, whilst meeting the regulations of the PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard).
Call Handling Solutions
With over 25 years’ experience in telephony we can provide solutions to all your Call Handling needs, from Call Recording systems to Online Payment Portals and Audio and Network Conferencing solutions.
Fusion IVR Scripting
Our game-changing IVR scripting tool has helped our customers to slash development time and launch new services far quicker than their competition. With over 50 nodes available as standard you can tailor our Fusion IVR scripting to your specific needs.
Projects & Clients
We choose to work with C3 because of their long-standing reputation in the industry.
Vodafone
C3 delivers the technology we want, when we need it. Their open platform and flexible technology has enabled us to add value with bespoke integration.
University of Cambridge
C3 are very customer focused and dependable. Always ready to help find a solution, having the skills and expertise on hand to help shape customers requirements
GCI
From the C3 Blog.
WhatsApp passes 100 million voice calls a day
Welcome to C3’s Industry Insight blog series inspired by articles and comment on the web. In this blog, as WhatsApp passes a significant milestone, Martin Kirkup considers the advantages of VoIP Whatsapp revealed in a recent blog post that its users make more than 100 million voice calls each day equating to more than an … Continue reading WhatsApp passes 100 million voice calls a day →
21st July 2016
By marketingmarketing
Tags: VoIP, WhatsApp
It Doesn’t Have To Be This Way! Why Companies Hang Up On Customers
Welcome to C3’s Industry Insight blog series inspired by articles and comment on the web. In this blog, Natasha Rutterford tackles the thorny issue of dropped calls I love the daily tips emails from Contact Centre World. Some are really enlightening with new ideas and operating methods, many others highlight common failings in customer handling. The issue … Continue reading It Doesn’t Have To Be This Way! Why Companies Hang Up On Customers →
20th July 2016
By marketingmarketing
Tags: Call Handling, Customer Satisfaction
University clearing is important to both parties
Welcome to C3’s Industry Insight blog series inspired by articles and comment on the web. In this blog, Martin Kirkup analyses the two-way street of University Clearing. Now with the end of their exams and summer officially arrived it can be tough for students to keep track of all the different universities and Colleges Admissions … Continue reading University clearing is important to both parties →
By marketingmarketing
Tags: Clearing, UCAS, University Places
The Power of Human
Welcome to C3’s Industry Insight blog series inspired by articles and comment on the web. In this blog, our Marketing Manager Natasha Rutterford looks at the importance of a ‘human touch’ vs full automation. Automation, self-service and the power of technology have revolutionized the contact centre, however when it comes to resolving some issues you can’t … Continue reading The Power of Human →
19th July 2016
By marketingmarketing
Tags: Automation, Contact Centre
Get in Touch
Newsletter
Keep up on our always evolving product features and technology. Enter your e-mail and subscribe to our newsletter.
Success! You've been added to our email list.
Go!
Latest Tweets
Please wait...
Contact Us
Address: Stirling House,
Denny End Road,
Waterbeach,
Cambridge,
CB25 9PB,
United Kingdom
Phone: +44 (0)1223 427700
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 427711
Email: info@c3.co.uk
Follow Us
© Copyright 2016. All Rights Reserved.
