Welcome | CLE Consulting
Caroline Lloyd-Evans
Business Coach and Relationship Counsellor
Home
About CLE
Business Clients
Private Clients
Client List
Articles
Links
Contact CLE
CLE Consulting & Training for business and personal challenges
Caroline Lloyd-Evans - personal and business coach, relationship counsellor, mediator, family consultant and trainer - has nearly 30 years experience of working with people at all levels. Caroline supports people as they ‘tidy themselves up' and acts as their sounding-board. She has a deep understanding of the complex intertwined relationships that have an impact on all aspects of our lives. Her success lies in problem-solving, evaluating, understanding and communicating the essential dynamics of difficult situations, and providing practical, constructive and confidential advice. This enables clients to make effective decisions and take positive actions in both their business and private worlds.
Working with you has certainly put a completely different perspective on life: I am feeling determined and can run my business with far more confidence.
for Business clients
Individuals, teams and employees are supported and developed through 1-1 and group coaching, tailoring the approach professionally, sensitively and effectively to the needs of each situation. People-dynamics that are causing problems and blockages are teased out and recognised and work programmes are planned to ensure results are practical and strategic. This valuable work:·
helps with stress management and coping skills
mediates work relationships and staff difficulties
supports companies during business growth and change
provides broad strategic and practical support at Board level
renews staff motivation and builds their confidence
maintains morale during redundancy and changing direction
for Private clients
Caroline's aim with private clients is to give them a reliable, supportive and caring setting where her considerable counselling experience helps them make positive decisions in stressful situations. Clients can talk in confidence about complex issues, working towards new and better outcomes. Sessions can be with individuals or couples, focusing on blockages and facilitating resolution. These worth-while sessions:·
encourage self-awareness and personal development
provide relationship, divorce, separation and co-parenting counselling
remediate low self-esteem and help build self-confidence
help manage stress and promote decision-making
facilitate the balancing of personal and business goals
support people during major life changes, including health issues
Thanks to CLE Consulting & Training, the conflicts with our difficult employee were resolved and they were able to leave us in a much better frame of mind, without the need for further legal action.
Take the first step...
Overcome indecision and confusion by giving me a ring.
A free half-hour phone call helps to start the proactive process, support and move things forward for you, your relationship or your work.
Tel: 01223 355148
Email caroline@cleconsulting.co.ukOr fill out our web form
Focus on...
A good time to change…
I know that January is the start of a new year, but writing this in September I realise that so many new things start now: next year of school, off…
Working with you has certainly put a completely different perspective on life: I am feeling determined and can run my business with far more confidence. Your work with key staff has meant we are now communicating intelligently, in an open and honest environment and the atmosphere and positivity is palpable.
CLE Consulting & Training
45 St Barnabas Road, Cambridge CB1 2BX
Telephone: 01223 355148
Mobile: 07885 187895
Email: info@cleconsulting.co.uk
© Copyright Caroline Lloyd-Evans 2002 - 2017
