Design Portfolio - integrated corporate communications
Home
About
Portfolio
Team
Careers
CSR
Contact
Blog
watch our showreel
Toggle navigation
About
Portfolio
Team
Careers
CSR
Contact
Blog
The complete corporate communications partner
We combine compelling storytelling with a deep understanding of investor relations to create engaging and effective stakeholder communications.
Our business is distinguished by two distinct but complementary attributes:
design
consideredcreativity
+
portfolio
expertconsultancy
Our work is delivered by expert teams through a local, personal and hands-on service.
5
offices
+
24
years’ experience
What we offer
consultancy
Research + analysis + workshops
Strategic + creative advice
Content planning
Copywriting/editing + proofreading
consultancy
reporting
Annual + interim reports
Sustainability reports
Printing + mailing + digital conversion
Online self-editing
iXBRL + Companies House formatting
reporting
digital
Corporate + IR websites
Intranets
Data feeds + hosting
Content management systems
Social media management
digital
collateral
Presentations
Factsheets + brochures
Branding + guidelines
Photography
Video
collateral
About
Our latest work
Design Portfolio showreelShowcasing our print, digital and video capabilities→Escher GroupClearer communications through a relaunched website and brand→
More work
Some of our clients
What they say
We have partnered with Design Portfolio for our corporate communications for a number of years now, working on a variety of projects from the annual report, intranet and corporate website to product brochures and investor presentations. They are always full of creative ideas and sensible and timely advice which helps us to keep our corporate communications collateral fresh and focused. They are extremely flexible and for our latest project they seconded a project manager to work with us internally to ease our project pressures and achieve our launch date.
Fleur Wood
Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Vectura Group plc
Victrex has been evolving over recent years. As we move from our historic position of world-leading manufacturer and seller of polymers to a global solutions provider for our major global customers, our messaging needs and positioning has changed. The Design Portfolio team has supported us on this journey, helping us develop our annual report into a more simplified, focused and compelling story. Feedback on our corporate story has significantly improved and
we have been grateful for Design Portfolio's flexibility, professionalism and support throughout our recent projects.
Andrew Hanson
Head of Investor Relations & Communications, Victrex plc
Volution Group recently floated on the London Stock Exchange and we were thrown straight into the production of our first annual report. Design Portfolio impressed us with the design, proofing, print and distribution of our maiden report. They led us through the process and added value when it came to proactive proofreading, which was of an extremely high standard and ensured the end product looked good and was accurate. We would have no hesitation in recommending Design Portfolio to other companies.
Michael Anscombe
Company Secretary, Volution Group plc
The Design Portfolio team has worked on our annual report since 2007. Our deadlines have historically been challenging to meet and we continue to be grateful for Design Portfolio’s flexibility throughout each project, which has enabled us to always meet the final deadline. I have been asked a few times to recommend a specialist in annual reports and I have always recommended Design Portfolio without hesitation. I will certainly continue to do so in future.
John Pendergast
Divisional Director, SANNE (on behalf of Volta Finance Limited)
Rosslyn Data Technologies recently floated on AIM and 30 April 2014 was our first year end as a public company. Design Portfolio managed the design, proofing, print and distribution of our maiden annual report and the service we received was second to none. We have been really impressed with Design Portfolio and our dedicated account handler was a wonderful ambassador for the company. I would have no hesitation in recommending them to other listed companies.
Francis Reid
Chief Financial Officer, Rosslyn Data Technologies plc
Design Portfolio has been fantastic in supporting us consistently for a number of years.
The team always work diligently and with great professionalism to deliver our annual report and website relaunch on time and to a very high standard.
This year's project was once again well managed, in line with our tight reporting deadline.
The high standard of the design, quality of photography and overall attention to detail has produced an end result with which we are extremely pleased.
Laura Bright
Group Accountant, NWF Group plc
Want to know more?
Let's talk about how we can help transform your communications
Send an email: hello@design-portfolio.co.uk
Give Paul a call: +44 (0) 207 536 2032
Design Portfolio
London
7 Ensign HouseAdmirals Way
London
E14 9XQ
+44 (0)20 7536 2000
Design Portfolio
Leeds
Batley Business ParkTechnology Drive
Batley
West Yorkshire
WF17 6ER
+44 (0)1924 653 158
Design Portfolio
Cambridge
St John’s Innovation CentreCowley Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WS
+44 (0)1223 421727
Design Portfolio
Edinburgh
CBC House24 Canning Street
Edinburgh
EH3 8EG
+44 (0)131 272 2724
Design Portfolio
Miami
201 S. Biscayne Blvd28th Floor
Miami FL 33131
USA
+1 (305) 913 1326
A member of Flathill Communications Group plc
Accessibility
Privacy and cookie policy
Terms of use
Sitemap
© Design Portfolio 2017. All rights reserved.
