Home - EnSilica
COMPANY
About Us
Careers
Leadership Team
Vision and Values
Quality
Working with Us
Customers
Testimonials
Alliances
Industry Associations
NEWS
What’s New
CONTACT
Contact Form
Local Offices
Search
IC & SYSTEMS DESIGN
ASIC Services
Our experienced engineering team can provide digital and analog consultancy to help deliver your ASIC design to market.
Overview
Specification Development
System Level Design
Verification
Physical Design
Logical Implementation
SOC Design
When developing new System on Chip (SoC) devices our experienced teams can deliver turn-key design solutions.
Overview
Chip Specification
Digital Design
Analog / Mixed Signal
RF Design
Test Development
FPGA Design
Specialist FPGA expertise that allows us to deliver truly optimal designs that maximise performance and reduce unit costs.
Overview
FPGA System Design
FPGA Verification
Embedded
Delivering high quality embedded solutions and specialising in high-speed board designs with significant firmware & software content.
Overview
Design for Manufacture
Electronic Circuit Design
Software Development
eSi-Modules
IC SUPPLY
Supply Chain Management
EnSilica offers fabless customers a complete Volume Production Delivery service from GDSII tape-out to volume production.
Overview
Process & Vendor Selection
Packaging
Test & Qualification
Volume Production Delivery
Prototype Development
EnSilica provides a range of prototyping methods including FPGA-based and silicon MPW schemes that reduce ASIC development costs, timescales and risk.
Overview
MPW or FPGA Selection
Package Selection
Characterisation
SILICON IP
Processor IP
Highly configurable, silicon proven microprocessor architecture for embedded systems.
eSi-RISC Overview
eSi-1600
eSi-1650
eSi-3200
eSi-3250
eSi-3260
Digital IP
A broad portfolio of proven IP cores delivering high quality solutions to our customers.
Overview
eSi-ADAS
eSi-Comms
eSi-Connect
eSi-Crypto
Analog IP
Silicon proven Analog IPs that enable customers to be successful in dynamic and competitive markets.
Overview
MARKETS
Delivering Success
EnSilica has over 15 years experience helping its customers deliver 100’s of successful designs time-after-time.
Consumer & Healthcare
Communications & IoT
Industrial
Automotive
ASIC ServicesOur experienced engineering team can provide digital and analog consultancy to help deliver your ASIC design to market.READ MORE
IC Supply ServicesEnSilica offers fabless customers a complete Volume Production Delivery service from GDSII tape-out to volume production.READ MORE
FPGA Design ServicesSpecialist FPGA expertise that allows us to deliver truly optimal designs that maximise performance and reduce unit costs.READ MORE
SoC Design ServicesWhen developing new System on Chip (SoC) devices our experienced teams can deliver turn-key design solutions or bespoke consultancy.READ MORE
What We Do
EnSilica is one of the UK’s leading fabless design house focused on complete turn-key chip and systems design, development and supply.
The company has world-class expertise in delivering digital and analog-mixed-signal designs to its customers worldwide in the consumer, communications, industrial and automotive markets.
The company offers a broad portfolio of core IP covering embedded processors, cryptography and communications.
EnSilica has a track record in delivering high quality solutions to demanding industry standards.
READ MORENews and Events
Meet EnSilica @ MWC 2017 in Hall 7, stand 7B1516th January 2017 - 12:05 pmEnSilica Sponsors 2nd Automotive Sensors and Electronics Summit (23-24 Feb, Berlin)16th January 2017 - 11:35 amSee EnSilica @ IoT Tech Expo 2017 (23-24 Jan, London) Stand #123 – Showcasing IoT design and IP solutions16th January 2017 - 11:03 amEnSilica opens specialist Design Centre for RF and low power sensing applications based near Oxford25th October 2016 - 7:00 am
Core Expertise and Experience
The EnSilica engineering teams have the expertise and experience to deliver high quality solutions that are on-time, on-budget and right first-time.
IC & SYSTEM DESIGNWorld-class design solutions for ASIC & SOC, FPGA & DSP and Embedded Systems
READ MORE
IC SUPPLY SERVICESTurnkey test and production services, from first samples to mass production
READ MORE
SILICON IPDigital and Analog IP including eSi‑RISC CPU Cores, Comms, Cryptography, Connectivity and ADAS
READ MORE
Solutions Across Industry Segments
EnSilica has over 15 years experience helping its customers deliver 100’s of successful designs time-after-time and across a broad range of industries.
Consumer Electronics & HealthcareCommunications & IoTIndustrialAutomotive
Delivering Success
The level of repeat business the company receives is a testament to its ability to enable its customers to deliver products to specification, on-time and on-budget and to go beyond customer expectations. See the full list of Customer Testimonials.
“The solution developed by EnSilica, with its excellent features, has enhanced greatly the functionality of our product. We look forward to joining hands again with the team to develop more high-performance IC solutions.”
Ken TsuiVice President Design Engineering
“EnSilica is now selected as the sole CPU vendor for Semisens. We are glad that the right partnership made our device achieve the best performance and the highest value in this competitive market.”
Dave LeeSoC Design Manager
“If EnSilica commit to a deadline and a budget, then they will deliver. If you have an RFQ for an important design task requiring senior engineers you should send it to EnSilica.”
Xavier DuretIC Technical Lead
“EnSilica provided RTL-to-GDSII and DFT services to support the development of our first Smart Building technology ASIC development.  The teams response and professionalism was impressive.”
Andy HeatonFounder and CEO
Get In Touch
EnSilica is headquartered in the UK and has offices in India and the USA.
The company has an worldwide network of local design, support and sales partners.
Europe (HQ)Call us: +44 (0) 118 3217 310
Email us: info@ensilica.com
Find us: Google Maps
Wokingham (HQ),
West Forest Gate, Wellington Road,
Wokingham, Berkshire RG40 2AT, UK
Other Offices: Oxford | Bristol
AmericasCall us: +1 855 642 1070
Email us: info@ensilica.com
440N. Wolfe Road, Sunnyvale, CA 94085, USA.
Asia PacificCall us: +91 80 2258 4450
Email us: info@ensilica.com
HSR Layout, 1st sector, Bangalore, 560102. India
Worldwide Sales PartnersSales and support from our worldwide partners.
Find a partner near you
Send us mail
Please specify your area of interest:*FPGA ModulesSystem Level DesignFPGA Design ServicesASIC Design ServicesProduct DevelopmentIP coresCareersAlliance partnerOther 0 + 1 = ? Please prove that you are human by solving the equation *
About Us EnSilica is a leading fabless design house focused on complete turn-key chip design, development and supply along with circuit board design and embedded application development services for our clients worldwide from initial specification to finished design, production delivery and supply management.
Complementary to this we offer a broad portfolio of core IP covering embedded processors, cryptography and communications.
Quick Links Contact Us
Local Offices
esi-RISC Cores
ASIC Design Services
FPGA Design Services
Embedded Design
IC Supply Services
Silicon IP
Latest News
Meet EnSilica @ MWC 2017 in Hall 7, stand 7B15
EnSilica Sponsors 2nd Automotive Sensors and Electronics Summit (23-24 Feb, Berlin)
See EnSilica @ IoT Tech Expo 2017 (23-24 Jan, London) Stand #123 – Showcasing IoT design and IP solutions
EnSilica opens specialist Design Centre for RF and low power sensing applications based near Oxford
EnSilica Teams with BaySand to Provide ASIC MPW Customers with Configurable IP Solutions
@EnSilica Tweets by EnSilica
© Copyright - EnSilica |
Call Us -
UK: +44 (0) 118 3217 310 - USA:
+1 855 642 1070 - India: +91 80 2258 4450
TwitterLinkedinYoutubeMailRss
Scroll to top
