Endis : Creative Digital Agency : Creativity, Software, Mission. We are a digital agency focusing on software and websites for world-changing organisations
IntroWhat We DoOur TeamContact Us
#creativity #software #mission
We are a digital agency focusing on software and websites for world-changing organisations
We've been trusted by
What We Do
We listen... think, plan... and then deliver creative and technical solutions to make the world a better place.
Meaningful Software
We provide cutting edge software to organisations that make the world a better place.
Appealing Websites
We design good-looking websites for all devices that help our customers to make an impact.
Stellar Support
It's not all about code and crayons. Our team is both helpful and efficient, personally assisting our customers.
We like to chat
We are happy to consult and discuss with organisations and individuals about software & websites. We think it's fun.
We look around the corner
We stay ahead of the curve, making sure what we offer is the most up to date, so that customers get the best of the web.
Whistle While We Work
We enjoy what we do. We work as a team and have lots of fun along the way. It helps us work better.
Our flagship product allows churches to look good and work more efficiently with its admin, communications, people management, events and finance tools.
Visit ChurchInsight.com
Our Team
These guys are highly skilled and experienced to make sure customers thrive in this digital age.
Marcus
software
Marcus is our Director of Software Development. He has a PHD in Computer Science and a Theology degree. He enjoys weekend camping trips with his family and as much DIY as he can fit in.
Robin
design
Our Creative Director Robin has over 15 years  experience of being at the cutting edge of design and branding. Robin loves DIY projects, fishing and golf, if he can find the time!
Melissa
projects
Melissa is our Account & Project Manager. She keeps the project team on schedule and works closely with customers. She loves to travel, stay healthy and read good books. She drinks Dandelion coffee...
Debs
Support
Debs is our multi-talented Customer Support Manager. She keep us topped up with cake and a great sense of humour. Debs makes sure customers get great support, super-fast!
Paul
Web Dev
Paul, our Web Developer codes up our customers websites. Paul can be found learning French whilst he is doing DIY, in between front-end development, of course
Josh
Design
Josh is our Designer, and Account Manager. He is also a drummer in a band and a keen footballer, but unfortunately supports Fulham FC...
James
Software
James is our Senior Software Developer. Recruited straight out of Cambridge Uni, James works hard to make our software stand out. He just bought a cool Virtual Reality headset!
Ruth
Finance
Ruth, our Finance Administrator manages the day to day finance of Endis. She make amazing white chocolate chip cookies, loves to stay fit and eat fancy macaroons.
Al
Support
An amateur dramatics afficionado. Al loves helping customers – from  first time users to solving advanced issues. Al is our Director of Customer Experience.
Nick
Software
Nick, our Senior Software Developer writes great code but most enjoys playing with cables. After he walks his dog early in the morning, he makes sure he's the snappiest dresser at the company.
Jordan
Sales
Jordan is our Head of US Operations and is a fitness fanatic and loves all ball-related sports. Jordan grew up in Cambridge and is now based in LA, USA with his wife Arianna.
Kenton
Web dev
Kenton, our Web Developer has a PhD in Computer Simulation of Molecular Chemical Systems from Cambridge University. He's also an author and likes biscuits, lots of biscuits!
Brendan
Investor
Brendan founded Endis and continues to invest and advise us. He can be found driving his tractor, fixing broken gadgets and even looking after cows in France. He loses at golf to Adam our CEO.
Adam
CEO
Adam is our CEO and a keen golfer and gardener. He dislikes paper and wires. He can be found at local garden centre cafes eating breakfast with his 2yr old son, Ashton and wife Jen at the weekends
Contact Us
UK: Musgrave Farm, Horningsea Road, Cambridge CB5 8SZ
t: +44 (0)1223 928122
US & ROW: 10446 College Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64137
t: +1 (800) 816 9817
hello@endis.com
#software # creativity #mission
IntroWhat We DoOur TeamContact
