Institute and Faculty of Actuaries
Jump to navigation
Main menuHome
Become an actuary
Studying
Learn and develop
Upholding standards
Get involved
News and insights
Search form
Search
User login
Username *
Password *
Create new account
Request new password
Institute and Faculty of Actuaries
User menuNear you
Practice areas
Search
Login
About us
Membership
Find an Actuary
Research and knowledge
CMI
Shop
Menu
Featured content
Community
Pensions De-Risking
Join us on Tuesday 28 March to hear leading players in the pensions de-risking market deliver detailed analysis of recent bulk annuity deals, and discuss the latest thinking in the buy-in/out, longevity insurance and pension scheme investment markets
Integrity
Supporting you and your colleagues
CPD Coordinators play a key role in the effective engagement between organisations who employ our members and the IFoA. Our new CPD Coordinators’ Guide provides information about this role and highlights the benefits and opportunities available. Read more
Progress
Ogden Discount Rate
The IFoA has issued a Risk Alert drawing members' attention to a forthcoming announcement by the Lord Chancellor on a change to the Ogden Discount Rate. This change will affect most members working in General Insurance and can be read in full here
Community: Pensions De-Risking
Integrity: Supporting you and your colleagues
Progress: Ogden Discount Rate
Events
Date
2 March 2017
Blowing the Whistle on Professional Regulation: Discipline, Policy and the Challenge of Relevance in 2017
See all events
Date
21 February 2017
Gilts vs. Swaps: What's Going Down?
See all events
Date
7 March 2017
Current Issues in Pensions 2017 (CIP) London
See all events
Date
15 March 2017
Current Issues in Pensions (CIP) Edinburgh
See all events
Latest news
17 February 2017
Exam centre capacities
Over the past few years, as the demand for actuarial exams has increased, we have worked hard to to improve the choice and capacity...
17 February 2017
IFoA calls for Auto-Enrolment style scheme for Income Protection
The IFoA has called for an auto-enrolment style system to increase take-up of income protection products.
This could reduce State...
15 February 2017
Reducing the Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA) could have unintended consequences
The Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA) has today (Wednesday 15th February 2017) responded to HM Treasury (HMT)’s...
10 February 2017
IFoA strongly supports effective climate-related financial disclosure
The Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA) has today (Friday 10 February 2017) responded to the Task Force for Climate-Related...
Member notices
View volunteer vacancies
All current volunteer vacancies can be viewed here
Keep your membership record up to date!
To enable us to offer you the best possible support, it is important that you keep your membership record up to date.
The pioneering 400 Club
The 400 Club acts as a cross section of our entire membership. Read the latest feedback report
We have members in over 100 countries and exam centres in 80
Find out more about us
I am absolutely passionate that as members of our profession we should stand up and be counted at all stages of our careers
Suzanna Cook, General insurance specialist and volunteer since 2004.
Copyright statement
Copyright © Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, 2014-2017.
Footer links
Contact us
Contact form
Visit us
IFoA jobs
Site map
Cookie policy
Accessibility statement
Terms and Conditions
The Actuary
The Actuary Jobs
The Actuary Jobs Asia
Privacy policy
Refund policy
Tender opportunity
Email
Weibo
Facebook
Twitter
Twitter
