First Ascent, leadership, coaching and team development specialists
Like most websites we use 'cookies'. If you're happy with that, click 'OK' to close this banner and carry on. Or click 'Find out more'.
01223 223807
Ignite ambition.. Inspire confidence..
FirstAscent
About Us
Services
Team
Clients
News
Resources
Venues
Contact Us
Book Events
Sign up to receive
leaderscape newsletter
Driving performance through brain science
Global support to leaders, teams and organisations
Supporting teams to innovate, improve and win
Delivering fast, eye-catching results for clients
Utilising Brain Science
Tailored Programmes
Immediate Results
Learn about Emergenetics
Contact Us Right Now
Welcome...
Thank you for visiting First Ascent!
We provide contemporary leadership, coaching and team development programmes, uniquely designed for each client's challenges and incorporating the latest neuroscience research to maximise performance.
Find out about our next Foundation Event.
Our approach reflects our values: agile, engaging, provocative and accountable ... or to put it another way ... we listen, question and challenge you .... then we engage your people to deliver seriously impressive ROI for your organisation.
Our service is personal, flexible and responsive ... our unique team all have senior leadership experience ... we understand the challenges that leaders face.
We work with new start-ups and global multinationals. In Europe, India and America. All of our clients are ambitious
to improve their performance and to be leaders in their field ... and they describe us as a dynamic and engaging partner.
Your support from First Ascent is available 24 x 365, as we believe in operational reality. We mentor our alumni for life –
for free.
If you are looking for a highly committed, effective and trusted partner to help ignite ambition and inspire confidence in your people .... then please contact us for an engaging conversation as a first step towards accelerating your performance!
Latest News...
Friday 25th November 2016
On 16th November, senior leaders attended the 20th First Ascent Foundation Event and diagnosed salient leadership lessons from the Rio Olympics to take into the next four years. 	read more...
Friday 19th February 2016
First Ascent were delighted to welcome delegates to the latest Foundation event at Coombe Abbey in Warwickshire this week
The Foundation presents three workshops every year, each themed on a relevant, contemporary aspect of leadership.
It has been designed to provide a dynamic forum for people committed to excellence in leadership.
The topic was The Neuroscience of Leadership and the aim was to demonstrate how an understanding of the latest developments within neuroscience can really benefit leadership capability in organisations.	read more...
Friday 11th September 2015
The conclusion of this weeks Emergenetics Certification workshop, which took place at The Moller Centre, Cambridge, saw First Ascent's director, David Sales, take another step towards his Emergenetics Master Trainer status.	read more...
Twitter...
25th January 2017 17:01pm"@Geoffers70 @SouthCambs Glad you had a productive day Geoff!"25th January 2017 17:01pm"RT @Geoffers70: A day filled sharing thoughts on Leadership with colleagues at @SouthCambs thanks to @FirstAscentGrp"
About Us
Services
Team
Clients
News
Resources
Venues
Contact Us
Book Events
Copyright © 1998-2013 First Ascent Group
