Green Jersey Web Design | creating great websites to promote businesses and sell products
Actinic
Home
About
Work
Services
News
Contact
Get Started
Transforming a busy charity’s communications
Our client DS Extra 21 is a very active support & information group for parents, carers and people with Down’s syndrome.The group had been struggling for 12 months to introduce online communications and social media, and it was running an old website which was difficult to update.Green Jersey was asked to transform their communications, promote the charity, and help generate income.
Our solution
Before specifying the new website, we ran an online survey to establish members’
requirements. From this we put together an online strategy covering the web, Facebook, photo sharing, video, online newsletters, and mailshots.
At the heart is the new website itself. We seized the opportunity to create the absolute best site that we could. External services are used wherever possible and integrated tightly with the site.
Client feedback
“Having worked closely with the Green Jersey team from the start I can only say how professional they have been throughout. We couldn’t have asked for a more helpful team to carry out our project."
"Value for money? Definitely. The site was an immediate success and has had nothing but rave reviews. We are delighted with the results and look forward to working with Green Jersey for a long time to come."
Paul Smith, Chairman, Down Syndrome Extra 21
read more
World-class car care e-commerce
Polished Bliss is a leading supplier of high-end car care products & services.
Green Jersey developed a comprehensive online strategy with the company, and produced an ambitious new Actinic e-commerce website to leap the business forward.
We supply a suite of services which help keep Polished Bliss among the world’s best in their market.
Our solution
We created a website to not only sell Polished Bliss products very effectively, but also market their luxury services.
Extensive customisation includes a seamlessly integrated blog, a new stock control system, video & social media integration, a flexible product catalogue, highly detailed product descriptions and much more.
Every detail of the site is carefully designed to maximise the site’s effectiveness and its sales performance.
Since launch we've worked continuously with Polished Bliss to exploit it further.
Client feedback
“To say that we are absolutely delighted with the work Green Jersey did for us is an understatement."
"In terms of value for money, we got a great deal."
"If you’re looking for a developer who will take the time to understand your business, create bespoke solutions tailored to your needs, and act with integrity & honesty at all times, then I would urge you to speak to Green Jersey."
Rich Cooper, MD, Polished Bliss Ltd
read more
Competing with the retail giants
Appliance House is a new retailer of kitchen appliances & equipment. We were asked to create the business’s logo & branding before producing a sophisticated e-commerce website.
The site needed to give shoppers confidence in the quality of the Appliance House brand and its products.
Appliance House’s site must compete strongly with the largest of retailers – household names who spend hundreds of thousands of pounds on their own e-commerce solutions.
Our solution
We created the new site with Actinic’s e-commerce software at its heart.
There’s a particular focus on the presentation of products themselves - extending Actinic’s database to hold a huge number of product specification variables, and writing code to display them in the most helpful way to customers.
The kitchen appliance market is extremely price-competitive, so we created many features which showcase Appliance House’s value for money.
Client feedback
“Green Jersey was by far the most structured, organised and professional of the web design companies we asked to tender for the work."
"They were always very cooperative and forthcoming with innovative ideas."
"...fantastic to know experts are on hand to discuss site improvements, the latest trends, new technology..."
"We’ll definitely be choosing to work with Green Jersey in the future."
Chris Reid, Director, Appliance House
read more
New web presence for major charity
Our brief was to show DSA as a modern, forward-thinking charity, and to make DSA’s vast range of information resources much more easily available.
The new site had to be particularly accessible to those who find reading difficult.
We were also asked to create an online shop to give DSA a new income stream.
It was particularly important that DSA would be able to manage the site easily with minimal in-house resources.
Our solution
DSA’s website has a huge amount of content and its users are very diverse, so the project needed a very disciplined structure.
Its powerful content management system allows non-technical administrators to easily look after the site.
Our fresh design is intended to show Down’s syndrome in a very positive light, and to be very welcoming.
We implemented an innovative “talking text” facility to help those users who find reading difficult.
Client feedback
"...every detail is taken on board and translated successfully on screen."
"The final product is always eye catching, very functional and always meets aims & objectives."
"They always look for the best value for money..."
"The new site has been an incredible success."
Paul Zanon, Down's Syndrome Association
read more
Putting Britain's transport history on the map
The Transport Trust asked us to create a comprehensive public database to commemorate Britain’s legacy in the development of transport.
The database of 700 entries is updated by a national network of volunteers.
Our design particularly appeals to young people, to bring transport history & engineering alive.
Our solution
We created new branding for the site and extended it to the whole site design. There's plenty of new photography to illustrate it too.
The heart of the site is a highly customised directory within a content management system.
Each location has an aerial view, a photo gallery, live weather information, a Google Map, travel directions and much more.
There’s particularly powerful search functionality for visitors to find locations that interest them.
Client feedback
"Green Jersey guided us through a comprehensive process to define & prioritise our requirements."
"...everyone involved in the project knew the objectives and shared a common vision."
"The design process was very creative, and our site makes a tremendous visual impact."
"The website has met our requirements entirely, and the service from Green Jersey has been exemplary from day one."
Neil Marshall, The Transport Trust
read more
Letting tea out of the bag
Our client Eteaket is passionate about tea, so it’s important that the website lets their enthusiasm shine out.
Eteaket particularly wanted us to show how enjoyable & sophisticated tea can be.
The site has two objectives – to be the most attractive, effective online tea store, and to promote Eteaket’s unique tea rooms in Edinburgh.
Our solution
We produced one of our most sophisticated Actinic e-commerce sites for Eteaket, with a big focus on creative design & custom development throughout.
An integrated blog allows Eteaket to easily share their news and to build a customer community.
All of the product photography & lifestyle imagery was produced specifically to match the website design, so that the customer experience is as enjoyable as possible.
Client feedback
"The whole team really got behind my idea and their creative suggestions were brilliant."
"The e-commerce side has been a great success..."
"...it was definitely good value for money..."
"I’ve now got a site that I can manage and alter myself..."
"I can’t recommend the whole team highly enough."
Erica Moore, MD eteaket Tea Boutique
read more
Showcasing an independent filmmaker
Axiom Films needed to make its entire catalogue available to film enthusiasts.
They wanted to show plenty of video throughout the site, and to give access to a huge amount of information about their films.
An online shop was needed to open up a new, direct sales channel.
Access control to Press-only information was required too.
Our solution
A contemporary, clean-lined design was created so that the video & photographic content wouldn’t be swamped.
The site uses Joomla at its core. There’s a highly customised directory for the film library, Kaltura technology for video delivery, and Magento for the online shop.
Axiom’s films can also be bought & viewed on demand too.
We created extensive access controlled content to serve separate Press and film industry users.
Client feedback
“Green Jersey contributed fresh thinking and new ideas...”
“Green Jersey worked tirelessly... ...rapidly coming up with economical custom solutions.”
“Green Jersey conceived, designed, managed & delivered this project in an exemplary manner.”
“...we are exceptionally grateful to the team for their flexibility & professionalism way beyond the call of duty.”
Douglas Cummins, MD Axiom Films Ltd
read more
Actinic
Polished Bliss
Appliance House
Down's Syndrome Association
Transport Heritage
Eteaket
Axiom Films
Green Jersey builds superb websites to promote businesses and sell their products. We take care of our clients and we do everything to help them succeed online.
e-commerce strategy
We work hard to understand our clients’ businesses & their particular markets. Then we put together the right e-commerce strategies to engage with their customers and sell online successfully.
more
design and development
All of our design work is carefully created to give the right messages to our clients’ customers, and to encourage them to buy online. We write our code meticulously – we don’t cut corners, and nothing is left to chance.
more
exploitation
We help clients get the best possible return on their investments, learning from how their sites are being used and making continuous improvements, so their sites always support their growing businesses.
more
SEO and digital marketing
We design, code, and write content for maximum search engine effectiveness. Then we help clients exploit social media, email campaigns, and online advertising – all focused on delivering a return on investment.
more
follow us
Follow us on Twitter
what's new
Green Jersey launches Actinic Online templates
Néo Rétro is the first of a new series of templates specifically designed & built for the Actinic Online / Oxatis solution.
March 15, 2013
Sophisticated SellerDeck site for Stickers4
Our e-commerce site for Stickers4 has some of our most advanced SellerDeck customisation & functionality yet.
December 12, 2012
DS Extra 21 – new website & online services
Green Jersey has launched a suite of online services for charity DS Extra 21, including a comprehensive new website.
May 22, 2012
Top
contact Green Jersey
If you'd like to talk about how Green Jersey could help your business, please get in touch. We are very happy to answer any questions you have.
interested innew e-commerce websitenew corporate websiteconsultancy from Green Jerseyupgrade or enhance existing siteSEO & digital marketingother
Which company makes the iPhone?
01223 858709
info@greenjersey.com
twitter.com/greenjersey
Green Jersey Web Design LtdSt John's Innovation CentreCowley RoadCambridge CB4 0WS
© 2017 Green Jersey     Registered company : 06162728     VAT : 970745203     Our Cookie Policy
Cookie Notice
This site uses cookies. You can see our cookie policy here. If you want more information on managing your cookies click here.
Close
