Health and Safety Works - Health and Safety Consultancy, Health and Safety Training in Cambridge, Norwich, Ipswich, Cambs, Norfolk, Suffolk
Name
Email
Telephone
How can we help?
Don't complete this please:
Get in Contact
Home
About
H&S Consultancy
Health & Safety Consultancy
Health & Safety Auditing
Health & Safety Risk Assessment
Health & Safety Documentation
Construction Safety
Laboratory Safety
Laboratory Safety
CoSHH Safety
H&S Training
Book H&S Courses Online
News
H&S Projects
Contact Details
Making Health and Safety Work
Health & Safety Works are a specialist health and safety consultancy offering a dedicated health and safety advisory service to small and medium sized businesses across Cambridge, East Anglia and London.
Our services range from health and safety reviews, audits, risk assessments and advice through to the provision of health and safety training that includes IOSH certified courses.
Next Course: 29th March 2017 - 30th March 2017 » IOSH Laboratory Safety, Venue to be Confirmed,
View all courses »
Health and Safety Consultancy
HSW Ltd has particular expertise within the technology and science research fields, including developing CoSHH systems for research, biosafety and laboratory safety together with substantial knowledge of both the DSEAR, REACH regulations and CHIP regulations including the production of Material Safety Data Sheets.
Health and Safety Audit
A health and safety audit provides an independent, objective review of existing safety management across your organisation.
Our audit outlines health and safety legislation that applies to your business and gives a clear and thorough report highlighting where best practice is demonstrated and where there are shortfalls in current procedures.
Learn More
Risk Assessment
Assessing risk is one of the primary obligations set out within the Health and Safety at Work regulations 1999.
We can work with you to understand and control the risks associated with your business, providing straight forward, easy to understand advice and action plans.
Creating a safer working environment with informed and empowered employees reduces staff absences and increases productivity.
Save Time and Money
Health and Safety Training
As accredited IOSH trainers, Health and Safety Works provide a range of courses designed to support your business in understanding health and safety legislation and ensuring best practice.
From Health and Safety courses for Managers and Senior executives through to Manual Handling courses, Laboratory Safety, Risk Assessment, Introduction to DSEAR, Cryogenic Gas Safety and Asbestos Awareness our courses are designed to ensure your business is working safely.
We can also give general awareness seminars on many topics and have delivered these to local safety groups.
We provide the training facilities and all course materials and courses can even be run at your premises to gain greater discounts.
Search our course database
Benefits of Health and Safety
Putting good H&S in place should not be seen as a regulatory burden; it offers significant business benefits.
reduced costs, less downtime due to accidents, plant breakdowns, lower insurance
reduced risks, greater company stability and sustainability
lower employee absence and turnover rates equals financial savings
fewer accidents;
Best practice
reduced possibility of legal action
reduced possibility of Fines and/or imprisonment in criminal prosecutions
reduced possibility of Compensation claims from injured staff in civil cases
improved standing among your business partners e.g. suppliers and partners;
better reputation for corporate responsibility among investors, customers and communities;
increased productivity, staff are healthier, happier and better motivated.
Health and Safety Projects
After a 5 months work we have had our Laboratory Safety course accredited by IOSH. It is a 2 day course covering all areas of laboratory safety. It has been developed and refined over some time and so reached the high standards that IOSH demand to satisfy their course accreditation. See our web site training pages for course information and dates.
Recent Articles
NOV04th
Higher Fines 2015
HSE to increase fines for Corporate Manslaughter.
Read More
MAY02nd
May 2014 News update
The busy year continues for HSW Ltd with both new and old clients. Also important ACoP updates from the HSE.
Read More
Where we Work
Health & Safety Works provide health and safety consultancy, support and training to companies across East Anglia:
Health & Safety in Cambridge
Health & Safety in Newmarket
Health & Safety in Bury St Edmunds
Health & Safety in Ipswich
Health & Safety in Norwich
Health & Safety in Bedford
Health & Safety in Peterborough
Health & Safety in London
Health & Safety in Cambridgeshire
Health & Safety in Norfolk
Health & Safety in Suffolk
Health & Safety in Bedfordshire
© 2004-2017, Health and Safety Works Limited.
Registered in England No. 4600331.VAT no: 807045449
Website Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
Privacy Policy
Cookies Statement
Useful Links
website design diss by sla associates
