Home | Hewitsons Solicitors
How can we help you?
Top Results
Linkedin
Twitter
Contact us
Keep informed
Menu
Home
About Us
Expertise
Services
Agriculture & Rural Property
Commercial
Construction & Engineering
Corporate
Dispute Resolution & Litigation
Employment
Insolvency & Corporate Recovery
Intellectual Property & Information Technology
Pensions
Planning & Environmental
Private Wealth
Real Estate
A-Z of all services and sectors
Sectors
Agriculture, Food and Rural Business
Banking and Finance
Charities
Education
Owner Managed Businesses
Public Sector
Sport
Technology
Transport
Search
Our People
The Latest
Careers
International
Events
Absolute Client Focus
Charity Lunchtime Forums
21/03/17
- 03/05/17
An active Regulator, how to avoid Charity Commission intervention
Over the Spring we are hosting forums in four locations: London, Milton Keynes, Cambridge and Northampton. These are suitable for trustees and senior managers of all charities including schools, colleges, universities and unregistered charities.
Our   focus   will  be  An  active  Regulator.
Against a backdrop of diminishing resource for the Charity Commission and increasing demand for public accountability from charities, new laws strengthening the Commission's powers of intervention are now well established. Even the best governed charity can unknowingly fall foul of these powers. So what are the powers and how do you avoid them being used on you and your charity?
Dates and Locations of all our Charity Lunchtime forums below:
Milton Keynes: Tuesday 21st March 2017 at 12:30pm - 2:30pm
London: Tuesday 28th March 2017 at 12:30pm - 2:30pm
Cambridge: Wednesday 26th April 2017 at 12:30pm - 2:30pm
Northampton: wednesday 3rd May 2017 at 12:30pm - 2:30pm
For further information please contact our events team at events@hewitsons.com
Due to venue capacity places are limited. To avoid disappointment early acceptances are recommended.
Risk Management in Charities and Sport
16/03/17
- 16/03/17
Strong governance and risk management are vital for any organisation but how should charities and sports organisations go about this? We invite you to join experts from the charities and sports teams at Hewitson Moorhead and RSM UK as they explore this at their forthcoming seminar.
Key topics will include:
- Risk Management in Charities - Avoiding pitfalls
- Risk Management - How to embed into individual organisations (practical points)
- Governance in Sport - Recent Trends
- Fraud
For further information please contact our events team at events@hewitsons.com
Register your interest
Further Planning Reforms Proposed in Housing White Paper
13/02/17
The Government has published a White Paper entitled “Fixing our broken housing market” aimed at encouraging the delivery of new homes and making housing more affordable.
It’s a privilege
13/02/17
A lawyer’s client enjoys certain ‘privileges’. These legal privileges derive from the ‘confidentiality’ that lies at the heart of the client-lawyer relationship. You expect that what passes between you and your lawyer to be just that – between the two of you and not open to the curious eyes of others.
Absolute Client Focus
Our range of activities is wide but our vision is focussed and precise. Absolute Client Focus is the guiding principle for our approach to legal services undertaken out of our offices in Cambridge, London, Milton Keynes and Northampton and with global reach through LawExchange International, our Worldwide network. It is the principle that informs our approach to our work for businesses, individuals and institutions. It is what unites our specialist legal teams and our client sector groups. Along with outstanding client service and always aiming to achieve the very best results, at Hewitsons the client is at the centre of everything that we do.
Cambridge
London
Milton Keynes
Northampton
© Hewitsons LLP
About us
Legal Statements
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Sitemap
Website Terms of Use
Hewitsons LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
Client login
Print page
Email page
