Axiom-E - Axiom-e - Providing Part-time (p/t) Finance Directors for growing companies: The Strategic Financial Management Consultancy
To gain the axiom-edge,
telephone +44 (0)1223 839579
Welcome
Axiom-e overview
Specific Services
Services
Contact Us
News archive
Testimonials
Testimonials - Training & Development
Training and Development
Consultants only
Username
Password
Remember Login
Forgot your password?
Not a member?
Click here to register
Welcome
Latest news:  Ken Dickson was honoured to give the keynote talk on "Building the Future" at the Cambridge International Education Conference on "Rising to the Challenge". If you would like to benefit from a talk on finance or business or a bespoke training course, please contact us.
Thought for the day: This year's Cycle Challenge will be the 99 mile Devon Coast to Coast route.
Through Axiom-e, the independent strategic financial
management consultancy, Ken Dickson works with ambitious and visionary company owners/directors who
want to grow their organisations to maximise impact in the long-term whilst
ensuring short-term survival.
Axiom-e's clients include commercial companies, charities and social enterprises. Clients are at varying stages in their business life cycle and understand that "From start-ups to trade sales, experience counts"!
Based in Cambridge, Axiom-e's support of clients as business adviser, mentor,  coach and trainer is based on years of experience
of running companies and other organisations.
An organisation
needs good financial management at all times. It is never too early (but
it can often be too late) to seek advice and input to help you plan, manage and
deliver results.
To find out more
about how Axiom-e can add value to
your organisation and so give you the axiom-edge over your
competitors, please contact us to discuss your
needs.
Axiom-e helps The Turbo Trust  to transform lives and so can you  :
Website and content copyright (c) Axiom-e Limited 2001-08
axiom-e...the Strategic Financial Management Consultancy
97 Brewery Road, Pampisford, Cambridge CB22 3EW United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1223 839579 Fax: +44 (0)1223 839581 Email: info@axiom-e.co.uk
