Invizua
Invizua is dead. Long live Pikslme.
That’s right. Invizua ran its course.
Continue to Pikslme
A little history and context from Invizua’s founder, James Sandoval
I started Invizua in September 2008 following an exciting and rewarding 10 years [and 10,000+ hours] of work and play in digital marketing services.
During that decade, I had the great fortune to work with truly amazing people at the aQuantive agencies Avenue A and Avenue A|Razorfish in Seattle. And I have been extremely lucky to work in London, one of the greatest cities on earth, for most of my digital marketing career with Aegis Media’s Carat Interactive, Diffiniti (now called iProspect) and Isobar Global, followed by a stint with WPP’s Neo@Ogilvy in Canary Wharf.
With Invizua, my objective was to partner with innovative software and technology companies to advance the development of digital marketing in Europe through the achievement of “new visibility” via their products/our services.
It’s in the name. Invizua is a mashup of the words "In" and "Visual". The core idea that I had built upon for four years was that we could bring Into View new, powerful business insights.
Together with my very good friend and business partner, Indranil Datta, we did just that. And we were lucky to do that with:
AdXpose: With Seattle-based AdXpose, we helped to create powerful new visibility and data-driven business results for advertisers via their solution for display campaign measurement and verification. AdXpose was acquired by comScore in August 2011 and resurfaced as comScore’s validated Campaign Essentials product. The Invizua/AdXpose relationship happily drew to a close on 31 December 2011.
BrightTag: With Chicago-based BrightTag, we were creating powerful new visibility and numerous data-driven business opportunities for advertisers and publishers by unlocking 1st party data assets [from anywhere, but starting with "tag management"] for activation via digital marketing and media initiatives.
Note: Following BrightTag’s acquisition of SiteTagger in August 2012, James Sandoval became SVP & Managing Director EMEA and Indranil Datta became Solutions Director EMEA for BrightTag.
TruEffect: With Colorado-based TruEffect, we helped to create powerful new visibility and data-driven business results via the application of their 1st party ad serving platform. Invizua’s two-year engagement with TruEffect wrapped up in the summer of 2010.
Visokio: With London-based Visokio we helped to create powerful new visibility and data-driven business results via the application of Omniscope, which is exceptional software for visual data integration, data visualisation, automated publishing and more.
A parting Q&A for our industry friends and customers of Visokio’s Omniscope
We’re sad to see you go, why now?
Very simply, Indranil and I chose to pursue a fascinating business opportunity. While we won’t be in the data management software game any longer, we will remain active in the digital marketing technology ecosystem.
We very much enjoyed developing commercial relationships for Visokio, taking their software broadly and deeply into a new business category (primarily digital marketing services), but, like with all good things, they must come to an end.
Who will service and support us moving forward?
All service and support will is now provided by the team at Visokio.
How, if at all, does this change affect any contractual obligations?
We have fulfilled on all of our commercial and business requirements to all Invizua clients and to Visokio. All consulting engagements have run their course and we will not be taking on any new engagements.
Regarding invoicing, all Invizua clients are now invoiced by Visokio directly (for new orders, renewals and any consulting/training services).
What is the renewal process?
Your Omniscope software will let you know when the licence is scheduled to expire. Alternatively, you should reach out to your Visokio contact directly regarding renewals (see below).
What can we expect from Visokio in terms of service and support?
The Visokio team lives and breathes Omniscope and they have several years of experience servicing a number of marketing services organisations indirectly through Invizua, but directly as well. That is to say that service from Visokio will be in line with, if not better, than what you’ve experienced working with us.
To be clear, the service and support process will remain the same. The Visokio Forums (http://forums.visokio.com) will continue to be your first port of call for any/all product-related questions.
Which contacts will we have at Visokio for support, renewals, etc?
Your lead Visokio contact is:
Tom BateCommercial Director+44 2073514887+44 7802254482
Your contact for renewals is:
Paola TomeiCommunications Manager+44 20 7351 4646
Thank you.
We thank you from the bottom of our hearts. We have genuinely enjoyed developing the Invizua business, achieving a number of goals that we set out for ourselves and working with you. We’ve learned a great deal and look forward to seeing you again soon.
We haven’t gone far ;-)
All the best from the team at Invizua!
James Sandoval
Founder & Former CEO - Invizua Limited - www.invizua.com
Co-Founder & Advisor - Pikslme Limited - www.pikslme.com
Phone: +44 7740 284 164
Email:
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/jamessandoval
Twitter: @checkyourfuel
Read more…
About Pikslme
London-based Pikslme is an information and advisory company created by digital marketing professionals, for digital marketing professionals, supplying multi-market strategic supplier intelligence and auditing services.
Pikslme Products & Services
Pikslme Insight
Pikslme Intel
Pikslme Inspect
Continue to Pikslme
A little background.
There are 2,000+ third party suppliers of media, marketing and measurement solutions globally. We know. We’ve seen them and we know who’s using them.
The Industry Problems We’re Solving
Making digital media, marketing and analytics supplier selection and adoption decisions is subjective, slow and fraught with risk. We’re solving these problems by providing access to rich, objective data and analysis that bring into view the in-market application of suppliers’ solutions, industry trends and much more.
We help businesses invest in digital marketing partners wisely.
The Pikslme Solution
Pikslme’s proprietary crawler, combined with data from comScore and other partners, creates an unparalleled view of the relationships between buyers and sellers of media, marketing and measurement solutions in the digital marketing supplier ecosystem in any geography.
Value for Advertisers, Agencies & Publishers
Our objective intelligence helps advertisers, their agency partners and publishers to make better supplier sourcing and purchase decisions. Whether is through the analysis of competitors’ desktop/mobile websites or via an audit of owned and operated sites, Pikslme unveils and creates tremendous value fast.
Value for the Industry’s Vendors
Technology and media services vendors subscribe to our services and data to aid their go-to-market strategies, quickly identifying business development, positioning and growth opportunities. Ask us about targeted analyses of any number of websites to see how you can compete more effectively.
Value for Investors and Advisors
Investors and advisors use our services to identify and capitalise on emerging industry trends.
Read more…
