Award winning website and mobile app designers - Cambridge, UK - Isle Interactive
This site requires JavaScript for certain functions and interactions to work. Please turn on JavaScript for the best possible experience.
Home
About us
Selected projects
Our services
Updates
Contact us
Recruitment
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Googleplus
Isle Interactive
Menu
Award winning digital agency based near Cambridge, UK.
We design, develop and manage web, tablet and mobile experiences for businesses, publishers and brands across the UK and further afield
Web
Mobile
Tablet
01353 661310 / info@isleinteractive.co.uk
Isle Interactive, founded in 2005, is a full service web design and development agency based near Cambridge, UK. We combine inspirational design with technical excellence to deliver responsive websites and mobile applications.
Please contact us on 01353 661310 or via email on info@isleinteractive.co.uk for a no-obligation discussion regarding your project.
Contact us About us
Selected projects
Redesigning the Cambridge Dictionary
Rebrand and redesign of the globally popular Cambridge Dictionary website for Cambridge University Press
View project
Volactive
Launch of Volactive.com
View project
English at Work
English at Work survey - digital presentation
View project
Stafford House International
New website for international language school following rebrand and global expansion
View project
Richard Hannon Racing
Fully mobile optimised website for British flat racing Champion Trainer Richard Hannon
View project
View more
"Isle understand your vision and make it an exceptional reality"
Alison Palmer, journohub
Our Services
Web design / UX
Our in-house creative and user-experience team is able to make your design vision an exceptional reality.
Web development
Our technical team includes programmers experienced in a number of technologies including LAMP (Linux/PHP/Apache/MySQL) and ASP.NET/MS SQL.
App development
We are highly experienced in developing mobile optimised, responsive websites and iOS and Android applications.
eCommerce
Our system can deliver a single product store with payment via PayPal to 1000s of stock lines with integrated payment.
Support
We offer an extensive range of digital support services including enterprise cloud hosting, email support, web maintenance and domain names.
Social media & seo
We offer a range of social media and search optimisation services.
Find out more
"Outstanding design team and e-commerce support is second to none!"
Nikki Cooper, Inner Me
Updates
Stafford House International
New mobile optimised website for Stafford House International. Stafford House is an English school with centres located in 8 global locations including San Francisco, Boston, London and Brighton. www.staffordhouse.com.
Teacher recruitment platform
Online recruitment platform for Hertfordshire schools launched 1st October - www.teachinherts.com.
Cambridge University
Coming to study at Cambridge? You'll need our freshers guide developed for Cambridge University Students Union.
iOS & Android Apps launched for Cambridge Education Group
Two new Mobile Apps launched for CEG which are fully integrated with our web CMS to enable content to be easily pushed to Web and App from the same interface. iOS / Android
journohub goes live
This exciting new digital project connects editors with freelance journalists. A feature rich and fully functional industry tool branded, designed and developed from the ground up by our team - journohub.co.uk
In the press...
Great article on @racingpost featuring the site we launched for @EdDunlopRacing - read it here.
Cambridge University Press
Our first site for this new client was a unique Facebook integration - view the site here.
We won an award!
Thrilled! We won the PPA eCommerce Innovation award for our work with William Reed. Amazing. #PPACD @esco_uk
View all
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Googleplus
01353 661310
info@isleinteractive.co.uk
Babylon Bridge, Waterside, Ely, Cambridgeshire CB7 4AU
Map and directions
Registered in England no. 5332507 | © Copyright Isle Interactive 2005 - 2015
Cookies
