Janus Technology | "Can you integrate it? – Yes we can!"
About Us
Request a Driver
Log In / Register
Home
Consulting
Apps
Drivers
Support
Online Store
DEALER AREA
Cart
/ £0.00
0
No products in the cart.
“Personalised biometric access solution with Control4 integration”
In stock now...
“Driver solutions for multiple Smart Home platforms, developed in conjunction with Rako and running their demonstration facility.”
Find out more
“IP integration of B&O allowing full control of all ML connected devices”
Find out more
“Complete system design and implementation for in-store HD Video distribution, including intuitive in-store Web interface and management control”
Find out more
“A suite of two-way Ethernet drivers for Lilin IP cameras and network video recorders”
Available to download free!
Consulting
With our extensive knowledge of the major Custom Installation technologies and our software engineering expertise, we can help your business. Whether it’s design and development of a complete integrated solution, or expert advice for a specific problem, we have the skills.
For manufacturers we will happily take on turn-key projects, or work as an integrated part of your internal development teams. For Integrators we can provide a spectrum of services from initial systems design consulting, to development and deployment of specific integration solutions (from a simple driver to a complete system), with particular skills in integrated Building Management.
Drivers
We have developed a range of drivers for CI platforms that simplify the integrator’s job and are adding to the collection all the time. We do the hard work of talking to the equipment and provide a simple interface for you to use. Some drivers have been co-developed with the manufacturer and are available free of charge, while others are available on a licensed basis – take a look at our DriverStore.
In addition to what’s already on offer, we are always writing new drivers.  If you’re a manufacturer looking for a simple route to having your devices work seamlessly with the major control systems in the Smart Home market or if you’re an installer looking for a bespoke solution to get exactly what you want for your client then we can tailor something to fit for you.
Apps
The team at Janus has a broad range of experience in software development.  We have developed apps for clients on iOS, Android, Windows and MacOS as well as web apps using both DHTML/JavaScript and Java applets. We have also assisted in the development of internal software for high-end A/V systems.
We particularly specialise in app-enhanced systems, where our systems design experience comes to the fore.  We develop the app in concert with the control system programming to deliver an end-user experience that is exactly what is required.  Smart Home applications has been the main focus, supporting multiple different services (media, lighting, security, HVAC etc.), but we have also developed integrated VoIP apps.
Twitter Feed… Tweets by @JanusTechnology
Drivers by control system…AMX
Control4
Crestron
Elan
RTI
URC
Your Account…View Orders
Edit Account Details
Auto Driver Generation
Driver Projects
Contact Us… Ashwell Point
Babraham Road
Sawston, Cambridge
CB22 3LJ
01223 833852
info@janustechnology.co.uk
support@janustechnology.co.uk
Home
Consulting
Apps
Drivers
Online Store
Dealer Area
Support
Contact Us
Copyright 2014 Janus Technology Ltd.
