Home
About you
How we can help
Why us?
PR resources
News
Contact
Focused
On getting your message across
Our services
Flexible
Media-neutral approach
Our services
Efficient
Less admin, more action
Our services
Effective
Listening and understanding your business
Our services
PR AND MARKETING CONSULTANCY
KeynotePR is an award-winning Cambridge-based PR and marketing communications agency working with clients across the UK and sometimes beyond. From our East Anglia base, our business to business public relations services include press and media relations, social media, events and targeted marketing communications.
Working in technology, professional services and other B2B sectors, our cost effective approach to PR gets results fast. From simple copywriting to a full blown marketing campaign, we’ll raise your profile, improve your reputation and help you achieve your PR and marketing objectives.
Every one of our clients is different
Each has a unique set of communications challenges, from launching an exciting new technology on the world, to attracting investment or competing in mature and competitive markets.
But they all have two things in common: they understand the power of effective communication to improve their corporate reputation, and they trust KeynotePR to deliver it.
Do you get as much media coverage as you’d like?
Is your news profile as strong as your competitors?
Are you confident that your corporate reputation is as strong as it could be?
A ‘No’ to any of these questions suggests you could benefit from boosting your PR programme, boosting your business and your career.
Since you’re reading this, you probably have at least some interest in how PR can help your business. You’re in the right place.
Take the next step
Latest Tweets
Tweets by @Terry_N
Follow @Terry_N
Latest News
DIGITAL MARKETING CONFERENCE GOES FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH
May 2015: Digital Marketing Conference programme announced
Read full article
CDT displays its capabilities
Jan 2015: KeynotePR selected to manage trade show presence
Read full article
Plan yournext steps
Reputationmanagement test
Key NOTESmini-guides
How wecan help
+44 (0)7923 540695
info@keynotepr.com
Address & contacts
@Terry_N
About you
Why B2B PR?
Planning PR / starting PR
Change gear
How we can help
Press and media relations
Digital marketing
Marketing communications
Embedded improvement
Reputation management
Why us
B2B sectors
Team credentials
Clients
Resources
How to choose a PR agency
Write a press release
Trade show check list
Reputation management test
©
KeynotePR Ltd / All rights reserved / Privacy Policy / Terms & conditions
Web design by Twin Dots
