CARO: The Lady Caroline Lamb Website
CARO: The Lady Caroline Lamb Website
“Mad, Bad, and Dangerous to Know”?
Lady Caroline's description of Lord Byron has often
been turned upon her. Learn more about her life and career as a writer
here.
When Lady Caroline Ponsonby married William Lamb in 1805, they expected
he would soon inherit a substantial estate from his aging father. When Caroline
died in 1828, however, William had still not received his father’s
title or his riches, because his father had simply outlived her. Throughout
her life Caroline lived in a wealthy world without really possessing those riches
herself.  Slowly, painfully, she fell from great expectations to a
crippled marriage and collapsing health. A frequently cited cause of that
fall has been William’s over-indulgence of his wife. William  remained
devoted to Caroline despite her tantrums and extramarital affairs, and Caroline
apparently loved him to the end. Their partnership endured
— despite the very public liaison
she had with Lord Byron in the spring and summer of 1812
— until she
drew her last breath.
Byron described Caroline as “the cleverest most agreeable, absurd,
amiable, perplexing, dangerous fascinating little being that lives now or
ought to have lived 2000 years ago.” Their affair lasted from March
until August 1812, when Byron almost eloped with her.  That fall, he
broke it off, and Caroline broke down. The psychiatry of the time called
it “erotomania”—dementia caused by obsession for a man.
It was a malady she shared with hundreds of other Byron fans, except that
she actually became Byron’s lover during the first great flush of
his success. Gossip soon made the affair and its aftermath into a sexual
melodrama, and even sympathetic portrayals of Lady Caroline convey the image
of an adulteress whose obsession with Byron drove him wild and her crazy.
While Caroline was certainly Byron’s lover in the flesh, their relationship
was literary as well as libidinous.
She was Byron’s equal in verbal wit at the time they met, when she
was twenty-six and he had just turned twenty-four. They shared a love for
dogs, horses, and music. Byron could sing, and Caroline studied Greek and
Latin, played the harp and harpsichord and wrote songs. She made drawings
and watercolors, and canvassed for elections; she even claimed she introduced
Byron to Dante. Byron admired her for raising Augustus, her mentally retarded,
epileptic son, at home instead of placing him with caretakers.
By 1812, when she met Byron, Lady Caroline had developed a contempt for
the low morals and superficiality of Whig culture. Byron shared this disdain
and admired her outrageousness. At first. Then he pulled back. Wounded,
Caroline wanted him to admit that he had been deeply affected by their relationship.
Though he claimed indifference to friends, he found it impossible to drop
her cold. He turned distant. She grew skeletal. She became for him a ghost
who preyed on his imagination, for she simply did not know how to crawl
away and suffer silently as married women did when their lovers jilted them.
Most biographers have shared Byron’s frustration at Lady Caroline’s
failure to conform to the feminine role of her era. They have not hesitated
to prescribe a “sharp slap judiciously administered” (thus,
Dorothy Marshall in  Lord Melbourne (1975)), or even an out-and-out
beating
— as recommended by Henry Blyth in Caro: The Fatal Passion (1972).
Criticism, too, has administered body blows to the modest corpus of her
literary work, starting with the publication of Glenarvon, her first novel,
in 1816. She wondered why “everybody wishes to run down and suppress
the vital spark of genius I have, and in truth, it is but small (about what
one sees a maid gets by excessive beating on a tinder-box). I am not vain,
believe me, nor selfish, nor in love with my authorship; but I am independent,
as far as a mite and bit of dust can be.”  The overreaction of
criticism to Caroline’s literary offenses complements her biographers’ obsession
with her drunkenness, temper tantrums and crockery-smashing. Those who have
judged her novels and poetry have treated them as an extension of her personality:
at best the production of a neurotic mind, and at worst a devious attempt
to hurt Byron.
Lady Caroline certainly suffered when Byron ended their affair. She was
threatened with a straitjacket several times subsequently. After Byron left
England, however, her life did not devolve into complete histrionics. She
published three novels, two accomplished parodies of Byron’s poetry,
several poems in literary journals, and a number of songs
— besides
having worked up three other novel projects and a “pocket-diary” called
Penruddock that she printed in England and sought  to publish in Ireland.
"Caro" has always provoked such strong reactions that it is difficult
to get an objective view of her life and work.  This site hopes to
provide resources for assessing her
place in English literary and social
history. Periodically, the site will publish original scholarship on Caro and her contemporaries, like Isaac Nathan, Amelia Opie, Madame de Staël, Lady Morgan, and Maria Edgeworth. The first of these essays, by Rosemary March, is now available. It is titled:
"The Page Affair: Lady Caroline Lamb's Literary Cross Dressing."
xhtml   css   cc   508   aaa
Home:
Biography
Works
Links
Resources
Pictures
Paul Douglass
