Sherlock Holmes on the Web: the Sherlockian.Net Holmepage
The original Sherlock Holmes stories
Holmes, Watson and their world
Arthur Conan Doyle, the author
Online resources
TV, radio, stage, film
Fan fiction, pastiches
Books, reviews, libraries
Fans, societies, events
Sherlockians •
Tumblrs
Pictures, sounds, games
Merchandise
Mysteries and more
England, the Victorian era
Copyright issues
Teaching Sherlock Holmes
How to
write a term paper
Sherlockian.​Net
The portal about the
Great Detective • founded by Chris Redmond • maintained by WIDE @ MSU
email
• @msuwide
Fanfic List
•
Spiritualizing Sherlock
•
BBC Sherlock
•
Crowd-Sourced Adventure
•
Book Reviews
•
FAQ
Announcement:
Dear Sherlockians,
As the new caretaker of Sherlockian.net, it is with great excitement that I send
you an update on our progress. As many of you know, Chris Redmond retired in 2016 after managing the
site for 22 years, and transferred it to us here at Michigan State University’s
WIDE Research Center. We have spent the past
several months reviewing the site, meeting with advisors, attending Sherlockian meetings, and talking
to the community.
Our mission is simple: We see our role as caretakers of this website; a cultural
landmark and an information portal for Sherlockians across the globe.
We have established a board of advisors to help us maintain and sustain the site
for the community. These advisors were chosen with great care over several months of conversations
and connections. We are grateful for their support.
Mattias Boström
Glen Miranker
Scott Monty
Jacquelynn Morris
Crystal Noll
Ashley Polasek
Chris Redmond
Tamar Zeffren
After the dust settles on our updated site, we will invite the community to
participate as curators of the site’ content, including over 3000 links to Sherlockian materials
across the web. Curators will help manage and maintain these sections with great care, remaining on
the lookout for relevant and interesting material to share with the community through short abstracts
and links.
We look forward to working with the Sherlockian community to make this site a
welcoming space for newcomers, experts, and everyone in between. Feel free to connect with us by
emailing the lab.
All the best,
Dr. Liza Potts and the team at
WIDE
