Mysterious Britain & Ireland | Mysteries, Legends & The Paranormal
Home
Encyclopaedia
Events Calendar
Forum
How to Contribute
Mysterious Britain Store
About Us
Bibliography
Contact Us
Copyright & Sources
Disclaimer
Links
Terms & Conditions
Login or Register
Username or e-mail: *
Password: *
Create new accountRequest new password
Why Register?
Gazetteer
England
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Crown Dependencies
Republic of Ireland
Mysterious World
Articles
Ancient SitesArticles
Burial Mounds
Chalk Hill Figures
Early Christianity
Earth Works
Standing Stones
Stone Circles
Wells
CryptozoologyAquatic Monsters
Articles
Big CatsBeast of Bexley
Beast of Essex
Featured Sites
FestivalsJanuary
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
FolkloreArticles
FairiesEnglish Fairies
Irish Fairies
Mermaids
Scottish Fairies
Welsh Fairies
FolktalesEnglish Folktales
Irish Folktales
Robin Hood
Scottish Folktales
Welsh Folktales
Tall Tales
HauntingsAnniversary Ghosts
Apparitions
Articles
Black Dogs
Civil War Hauntings
Ghost Ships
Ghost Stories
Green Ladies
Haunted Battlefields
Haunted Pubs and Hotels
Haunted Wedding Venues
Jacobite Ghosts
Photographed Ghosts
Poltergiests
Road Ghosts
Roman Hauntings
Screaming Skulls
Usual SuspectsDick Turpin
Lady Alice Lisle
Lillie Langtry
Mary Blandy
Mary Queen of Scots
Sarah Siddons
WWI Hauntings
WWII HauntingsWWII AircraftLancaster Bomber
LegendsArticles
Buried Treasure
Devil
Dragons
Giants
King Arthur
Merlin
Other Mysteries
PantheonsCeltic Pantheons
Nordic Pantheons
Roman Pantheons
Saxon Pantheons
The OccultArticles
Biographies
Groups
TraditionsSpiritualism
Voodoo
Witchcraft
UFOsAbductions
Articles
Sightings
Vampires
Book Reviews
Community
Featured Groups
Forum
GroupsEnglish GroupsEast Anglia
East Midlands
London
North East
North West
South East
South West
West Midlands
Yorkshire & Humberside
Groups OverseasCanadian GroupsBritish Columbia
Ontario
Quebec
Irish Groups
Northern Irish Groups
Scottish Groups
Welsh Groups
Facebook group
Business Directory
AccommodationBed and Breakfast (B&B)
Hotels
Self Catering
Camping and Caravan
Food & Drink
Investigations
Online StoresOnline Books
Online Clothing
Online Esoterica
Online Gifts
Online Jewellery
Photography
Places to VisitCastles
Museums
Stately Homes
Zoos and Safari Parks
Psychics and Clairvoyants
Radio Stations
Re-enactment Groups
ShopsBooks
Clothing
Esoterica
Gifts
Jewellery
ToursDay Trips
Ghost Tours
Holidays
Short Breaks
Mysterious Britain Store
Random Article
The White Lady of Rochester Castle
Rochester Castle is situated in the City of Rochester, one side is the River Medway, Rochester Cathedral stands opposite and many Victorian and older buildings surround on all sides. The moat has long since silted up and was used as a graveyard. Read More »
Who's new
jamesmoliverDebbspjsparky1066steve smithScaredycat
Who's online
There are currently 1 user and 13 guests online.Online usersjamesmoliver
Mysterious Britain & Ireland is a resource and community website dedicated to mysterious places, legends and folklore of the British and Irish Isles.
Lancashire Folk by Melanie Warren
I've known Mel for over 20 years, meeting though ASSAP while investigating paranormal cases in the North of England. We share a passion for collecting stories and coming from Lancashire myself I have been looking forward to reading Mel's new book and revisiting some of the old stories, coming across some new ones..and of course, I can now add the book to my collection! Read More »
1 comment
An Interview With Dr Jason Braithwaite
We recently caught up with Dr Jason Braithwaite, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Birmingham with an interest in anomalous experience, hallucinations, and aberrations in self-consciousness. He also has a formidable reputation for being extremely well informed on matters of the brain / mind relationship, and high quality scientific research. Read More »
GhostNav: Black Country Ghosts
The Black Country GhostNav is a new Android smart phone app by Andrew Homer and Nick Williamson for lovers of ghosts and hauntings. Paranormal enthusiasts can use the app to discover haunted locations in and around the Black Country area. Read More »
Book Review
Awakening The Soul: The Trilogy by Bill Missett
In the extensively researched and deeply documented Awakening The Soul, former newspaper editor Bill Missett exposes centuries of church control over spiritual consciousness and presents a process to restore awareness of one’s spiritual nature. Read More »
Blessing The Throats
3 February - Blessing the throats at St Etheldreda's Church, Ely Place, London.  Throat complaint sufferers are blessed by invoking St Blaise, the patron Saint of people with throat problems
An Interview With Rev Lionel Fanthorpe
A few years ago I was captivated by a talk given by Rev Lionel Fanthorpe at the first Muncaster Paranormal Conference and having been a fan of his since the days he presented Fortean TV in the mid 1990’s, I was disappointed that I missed the opportunity to speak to him. Therefore I was delighted when he agreed to give an exclusive interview for Mysterious Britain & Ireland. Read More »
3 comments
IRO (Independent Research Organisation into Paranormal Phenomena)
IRO was set up to provide independent research and investigation into the paranormal question. The definition of what is classed as paranormal has become polluted of the years. Read More »
Recent Additions
Church Lamb, Sweden
‘Another form of spectre animal is the kirk-grim, which is believed to haunt many churches. Sometimes it is a dog, sometimes a pig, sometimes a horse, the haunting spectre being the spirit of an animal buried alive in the churchyard for the purpose of scaring away the sacrilegious. Read More »
Radiant Boy
‘There is the popular legend of the 'Radiant Boy' — a strange boy with a shining face, who has been seen in certain Lincolnshire houses and elsewhere. This ghost was described to Mr. Baring-Gould by a Yorkshire farmer, who, as he was riding one night to Thirsk, suddenly saw pass by him a ‘radiant boy' on a white horse. Read More »
Sykes Street, Hull
The following account appeared in ‘County Folk-Lore Volume VI - Examples of Printed Folk-Lore Concerning The East Riding Of Yorkshire (1911)’ edited by Eliza Glutch. Read More »
Giant’s Cave, Edenhall
At Giant's Cave, near Eden Hall, it has been the custom from time immemorial for the lads and lasses of the neighbouring villages to collect together on the third Sunday in May, to drink sugar and water, when the lasses give the treat: this is called Sugar-and-Water Sunday. They afterwards adjourn to the public house, and the lads return the compliment in cakes, ale, punch, etc. Read More »
Holwell Holy Well
"HERE was a holy well or spring in the village of Holwell, on the borders of Bedford and Hertfordshire; unfortunately both history and site have been forgotten by the villagers at Holywell.”—A. C. G. Cameron, H.M. Geological Survey. [The Legendary Lore of the Holy Wells of England by Robert Charles Hope (1893)]
Feather Death Related Folklore
According to The Ghost World by T. F. Thiselton Dyer (1893) ‘The presence of pigeon or game feathers is said to be another hindrance to the exit of the soul; and, occasionally, in order to facilitate its departure, the peasantry in many parts of England will lay a dying man on the floor. Read More »
Old Brine, Nantwich
On Ascension Day, the old inhabitants of Nantwich piously sang a hymn of thanksgiving for the blessing of the Brine. Read More »
Bag or Black Mere
Robert Charles Hope gives the following description of Bag Mere in ‘The Legendary Lore of the Holy Wells’ (1893). "Before any heir of this [Brereton] family dies, there are seen in a lake adjoyning, the bodies of trees swimming upon the water for several days together." — [Camden : Brit. (Gibson's ed.), i. 677.] Read More »
more
Featured Sites
Buckingham Palace
Buckingham Palace has been the official residence of the reigning British monarch since 1837 when Queen Victoria (Born 24 May 1819 – Died 22 January 1901) ascended to the throne.
There are a few ghost stories attached to Buckingham Palace but I am unsure of how genuine they are and I have not heard any witness accounts. Read More »
Tomnahurich Hill
Tomnahurich Hill - which means hill of the yews - is a rounded tree covered hillock on the outskirts of Inverness, the hill has a wealth of traditions associated with it, and it is famed as an abode of the fairies. A modern cemetery now covers the hill. Read More »
Cross Keys Hotel, Peebles
Washington Old Hall
Navigation
Recent Activity
Active forum topics
The Headless Horseman of Dungee CornerA simple test for clairvoyance / mediumship etcwhere can i find fairies in Aberdeenshire and Perthshire
i need to talk with them about something importentNew Forest Witches and WW2?Understanding- mediumshipmore
Recent comments
Lancashire Folk by Melanie Warrenelizabetha25 Sep 2016 - 5:53pm
Elvet Bridge, DurhamIan Topham31 Jul 2016 - 2:32pm
Bunting Nook Black DogIan Topham11 Jun 2016 - 1:55pm
Watton AbbeyIan Topham3 May 2016 - 2:02pm
Calverley Old HallIan Topham28 Apr 2016 - 1:25pm
more
Featured Site
Spynie Palace
Spynie Palace was the seat of the bishops of Moray for over 500 years; the atmospheric ruins now a shell of its former glory. The Palace - like many old historical buildings - has its share of traditions and ghost stories. Read More »
1 comment
Mysterious Britain & Ireland uses cookies which are essential to the proper functioning of our site. By continuing to use our site you accept this.
