Bioregional - Championing a better way to live
x
Home
About us
Our team
Governance
History
Jobs
Awards
Book a BedZED tour
What We Do
Our work
Our services
News & ideas
News
Blogs
Publications
One Planet Living
Be inspired
Why One Planet Living?
Be involved
Join
Contact us
North America
Mexico
South Africa
Australia
Bioregional Annual Review 2015/16
Our Annual Review for 2015/16 maps our progress in helping our fantastic partners implement One Planet Living, and shares some of their own stories about what they’ve learned along the way.
B&Q One Planet Home Sustainability Review
B&Q  reduces the environmental impacts of its operations according to latest annual review.
Fremantle in Western Australia becomes world’s second One Planet City
Bioregional has endorsed the City of Fremantle as the first One Planet City in Australia.
A vision of a world in which people enjoy happy, healthy lives within their fair share of the earth’s resources, leaving space for wildlife and wilderness.
We champion a better, more sustainable way to live
We work with our partners to create better places for people to live, and work and do business.
View all
Our work
BedZED
Eco communities
Hackbridge, Sutton, UK
BedZED is the UK’s first large-scale, mixed use sustainable community with 100 homes, office space, a college and community facilities.…
Singita Serengeti
Eco communities, Leisure, sport and tourism, Natural environment
Tanzania, Africa
One of the world’s finest wildlife reserves is a One Planet Living Community, working to improve the lives of local…
NW Bicester
Eco communities, Regeneration & construction
Bicester, Oxfordshire UK
We’re helping to build the UK’s first Eco Town, setting new standards in sustainability, through a long-term partnership with a…
B&Q
Corporate advisory
UK
One of Bioregional’s longest-running and most important partnerships is with B&Q, the first One Planet Company. We’re entrusted with reviewing…
See more
What’s new
Businesses and Bioregional unite to back sustainable development
In an open letter to the Prime Minister, more than 80 businesses including Bioregional have united in a call on the Government to demonstrate its commitment to delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Ahead  of the World Economic Forum annual meeting taking place in Davos, Switzerland on 17-20 January, these organisations say they are ready to work with the Government to help deliver the SDGs in the UK as well as internationally. But Government must create a framework to help businesses play their part, they argue. Bioregional is one of the 84 signatories, along with more than 20 of the biggest and best-known UK and global businesses. The Read More
Project ERIC wins an Energy Award
Our pioneering solar power storage project in Oxford has won the Residential Building Project of the Year in the 2016 Read More
Leading building design companies support Bioregional in developing online platform for One Planet Living
We are excited to announce that we are developing a new online platform for One Planet Living. It will take Read More
Project ERIC is a finalist for two energy awards
Our solar power and battery storage project in Oxford is a finalist in the Energy Awards, with the winners to Read More
News & Ideas
Our approach
CreativeThinking
PracticalImplementation
Research &Evaluation
Scale up -Policy &Practice
The way we work is designed to deliver impact in everything we do with our partners.
Our best creative strategies and projects involve working with our local partners to make things happen and show what can be practically achieved, just as we did with BedZED.
We want to make a real difference, inspire others to do the same and work with our partners to make innovative and lasting changes happen.
We do this through the practical implementation of projects, using and applying our unique One Planet Living framework. We scale up our impact by influencing policy and practice.
We apply creative thinking to challenges that need a fresh perspective or where an entirely new approach is required.
We are always seeking to improve, so we measure, research and evaluate and, if necessary, adapt or amend our approach.
Find out more
One Planet Living
One Planet Living is our vision of a world in which people enjoy happy, healthy lives within the natural limits of the planet, wherever they live in the world, leaving space for wildlife and wilderness.
Our One Planet Living framework, based on ten easy-to-grasp principles, enables those we work with to plan for, communicate and deliver sustainable development. The framework provides a clear, practical route map for those who are seeking a better way to live and do business.
Find out more
Who we work with
Our impact
Good Woods More about our impacts
B&Q More about our impacts
Singita Serengeti, Tanzania More about our impacts
Sign up for our NewsletterReceive news updates about our work and from the inspiring One Planet Living projects worldwide
Contact us
Head office
Bioregional
BedZED Centre
24 Helios Rd
Wallington
London
SM6 7BZ
Telephone
+44 (0)20 8404 4880
Email
info@bioregional.com
Office hours
9am - 5.30pm
Other Bioregional offices:
Brighton, UK
Oxford, UK
North America
Mexico
South Africa
Australia
Quick links
BedZED tours
Media contacts
Our team
About us
One Planet Living
Work with us
Become a partner
Telephone
+44 (0)20 8404 4880
Email
info@bioregional.com
Social
Terms |
Privacy policy |
Accessibility |
Bioregional Development Group is a registered charity no 1041486. A company limited by guarantee. Registered in England and Wales no. 2973226 VAT no. 706 9040 45
