Home page The Roaches Peak District holiday cottages Roaches
Home
Find us
About Us
Contact
Links
Activities
Walks Overview
Walk1
Walk2
Walk3
Walk4
Walk5
Climbing
Of Interest
Wallabies
Wallaby memories
Places of Interest
Things of Interest
Eat & Stay
Where to Eat
Where to Stay
Galleries
Bob's Gallery
Paul's Gallery
Aerial Gallery
Facebook Gallery
Local History
Welcome to the Roaches Website
The Roaches where Buzzards fly and Wallabies may still roam.
The Roaches (or Roches) is a wind-carved outcrop of gritstone rocks straddling
the parishes of Leekfrith and Heathylee in the Peak District National Park about 4 miles north of Leek, Staffordshire
and 8 miles south of Buxton, Derbyshire. See
Google Earth image and Find us
HEADLINES -updated 15 Apr 2016. SITE 20 Jan 2017
3,500 year old urn found buried on the Roaches more
ANOTHER POSSIBLE SIGHTING OF A WALLABY! on 26 Apr 2015 at the rear of the Roaches near Hazelbarrow more
THE WALLABIES HAVEN'T ALL GONE! DAN WILLIS SAW ONE NEAR LUD CHURCH ON 22 SEPT 2014 more
The Peak Weavers Rooms and Restaurant has been added to the "Where to Eat" and "Where to Stay" pages
More has been added to the information on Lud Church on the Places of Interest page.
Wendy Goulstone has sent in a memory of a wallaby but also of a Yak!
New images added to Facebook Gallery
Gpx files for Walks 1,2,4 & 5 have kindly been provided by Matt Vokes for those who would like to use GPS on their phones to guide them on these walks more
Mark Lovatt has done a flypast video of the Roaches taken from his microlight.
The name Roaches has evolved recently
from 'Roches' as the area used to be known only 100 years (or less) ago.
'Roches' is the french word for rocks.
Click on the 3 dots at the bottom right of the black banner on the pictures to control the slider below.....
View
along the ridge towards Hen Cloud The Roaches used to be owned by the Brocklehurst family who resided at Swythamley Hall. Sir Phillip Brocklehurst, who was involved in Shackleton's journey to the South Pole, died in 1976 and the estate was sold off. The Peak District National Park bought the area now know as the Roaches. It is now managed by the Staffordshire Wildlife trust
Wallaby pictured 29 March 2009 For many years, from the 1930s to the early 2000s, a fairly large group of Wallabies roamed the Roaches. We believed that the last had died around 2011 but there has been a new sighting in 2014. They had been released from a private zoo at Roaches Hall. 3 Yaks were also released but they died out in the 1950s. I am building a library of memories of the Wallabies and Yaks. See the 'Wallabies' page for details
Rock Climbing on the Roaches There has been rock climbing on the Roaches since the turn of the 20th century. Access to the Rocks was a problem for the early pioneers, Hen Cloud in particular was difficult with armed gamekeepers patrolling the area. The Roaches has something for all abilities from Moderate to Extemely Severe.
This jQuery slider was created with the free EasyRotator software from DWUser.com.
Use WordPress? The free EasyRotator for WordPress plugin lets you create beautiful WordPress sliders in seconds.
OK
Rotator powered by EasyRotator, a free and easy jQuery slider builder from DWUser.com.
Please enable JavaScript to view.
The Roaches area includes Hen Cloud, so named perhaps because with a little imagination it looks like a roosting hen. The name could also have been derived from the Anglo -Saxon 'Henge Clud' meaning steep cliff. Also Ramshaw Rocks which includes the weird rock formation called the Winking Man.
The Roaches website has received an email from Dr Derek Yalden who has been studying the wallabies on the Roaches for 40 years.
To see his potted history of the wallabies go to the Wallaby memories page here. This is well worth reading.
Dr Derek Yalden, an emminent zoologist, died on Feb 5th 2013. RIP Dr Yalden
The last photo confirmed sighting of a Wallaby was by David Hobson of Buxton at Hanging Stone on August 2nd 2009. See photo and short videos on Wallabies page.
I am trying to build up a library of memories
of the Wallabies and Yaks. See the memories and wallabies pages.
------------
Want to know the weather on the Roaches? click here This weather station is about 2.5miles from the Roaches
------------
Want to know what you are looking at from the Roaches? From Long Mynd to Shutlingsloe. check this website. click here You'll need to click the magnifying glass to get good images.
Follow us on facebook
Roaches Appreciation Society
Peak Weavers Rooms & Restaurant
Eagle Motors
Tea Junction tea rooms
The Old Post Office Barn Holidays
Hen Cloud Holiday Cottage
The Knights Table
Greenhouse Farm Holiday Cottage
Field House Holiday Cottage
Lapwing Hall Caravan Site
Far House Luxury Holiday Accommodation
Roachesman©
Contact us
