UK Nature - A guide to the Flora and Fauna of the United Kingdom
Scientific Classifications explained
» Amphibians
» Bees
» Beetles
» Birds
» Bugs
» Butterflies
» Caterpillars
» Damselflies
» Dragonflies
» Earwigs
» Flies
» Froghoppers
» Fungi & Lichens
» Galls
» Grasshoppers
» Harvestmen
» Hoverflies
» Ladybirds
» Leaf Mines
» Mammals
» Millipedes
» Moths
» Sawflies
» Slugs
» Snails
» Spiders
» Trees
» Wasps
» Wild Flowers
» Woodlice
This is my first attempt at sharing my photographs and knowledge with fellow enthusiasts; with other people who, like me, are continually fascinated with the incredible diversity of animal and plant life on offer here in the United Kingdom. This site is still evolving and new species are being added at regular intervals, so please return whenever you can to see what is new on the site. I shall be adding and updating as and when I can.My early interest in wildlife almost exclusively involved bird-watching. However, while out birding in the countryside I could hardly fail to notice the diversity of other wildlife literally flying, crawling, hopping or walking around me in the trees and bushes. I became interested in butterflies, then carried that through in a sort of logical progression to moths. My vision magnified as insects caught my attention next; firstly with larger species on the wing such as dragonflies, damselflies and hoverflies; then progressively smaller species such as beetles, snails, slugs, ants and spiders. At the present time I think I can say that my interest is literally restricted by the size of the species and whether or not I can photograph it in any detail.Please feel free to email me if you have any queries about the photographs shown, if you wish to correct any innacuracies you find within the factual data contained here or even if you just wish to send me any encouraging comments to keep me sufficiently motivated to continue!
Wool-carder Bee (Anthidium manicatum)
Garden Chafer (Phyllopertha horticola)
Jackdaw (Corvus monedula)
Blue Shield Bug (Zicrona caerulea)
Red Admiral (Vanessa atalanta)
Common Blue Damselfly (Enallagma cyathigerum)
Autumn House Fly (Musca autumnalis)
Red and Black Froghopper (Cercopis vulnerata)
Turkeytail Fungus (Trametes versicolor)
Hoverfly (Epistrophe grossulariae)
Cream-streaked Ladybird (Harmonia quadripunctata)
Grey Squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)
Elephant Hawk Moth (Deilephila elpenor)
Kentish Snail (Monacha cantiana)
False Widow Spider (Steatoda bipuncta)
European Hornet (Vespa crabro)
Cornflower (Centaurea cyanus)
www.uknature.co.uk is a website dedicated to showing the immense diversity of UK nature and wildlife. Our vast range of habitats, from lowland arable to snow covered mountains, from storm-ravaged coastlines to peaceful inland freshwater lakes and rivers, from dry, sandy heaths to deciduous and coniferous forests, all these habitats contribute to the abundance of UK nature. We have wild birds in huge numbers either residing or visiting our shores (597 recorded species as at July 2013) and we must also not forget the humble back garden with its grass lawns, flower beds filled with nectar rich flowers, shrubs and trees, all designed to attract huge numbers of insects such as bees, moths, butterflies and hoverflies; and finally the small ponds which provide safe havens for frogs, toads, newts and even slow worms and grass snakes. www.uknature.co.uk is the showcase for my personal passion, photographing uknature in all its glory. I sincerely hope you all enjoy the fruits of my labours.
This site and all images contained therein is © Jeremy Lee 2004 - 2016. All Rights Reserved. Site design by DDS. Web Development by Stuart Lee at updownleftright.net
