Welsh Country Magazine: Food, Arts & Crafts, Places to Stay
Home
About Us
The Welsh Country Team
The Office Team
Regular Columnists
Illustrators
Mission Statement
Terms & Conditions
Advertising
Shop
Magazines
Single Copies
Subscriptions
Digital Copies
Geoff Brookes
Links
Contact Us
Welsh CountryYour Countryside Magazine for Wales
Check Out Content
News From Around Wales
Festivals & Events Calendar
Agriculture Shows, County Shows & Events
Horoscopes
Stories In Stone Book
Property
Misc Friends
Past Articles
Food
Where To Eat
North & Mid Wales WTE
South Wales WTE
Where To Eat Quick Directory
Best Of Welsh Food Directory
North Wales BOW
Mid Wales BOW
South West Wales BOW
South East Wales BOW
Welsh Borders BOW
Best Of Welsh Quick Directory
Welsh Food News
Welsh Kitchen/Recipes
Starters
Mains
Desserts
Food Festivals
Welsh Food Bites
Places To Stay
Mid Wales SAW
North Wales SAW
South Wales SAW
Stay Awhile Quick Directory
Arts In Wales
Welsh Arts & Crafts Makers
Welsh Arts & Crafts Makers
Arts & Crafts Quick Directory
Welsh Arts News
Arts, Crafts & Music Festivals
Your Wales
What is Your Wales?
Your Wales
Subscribe To The Magazine
January – February 17 Welsh Country MagazineWelsh Country Magazine is the pan Wales magazine that is essential reading for those that are passionate about the countryside of Wales, Welsh Food, Arts in Wales, the history of Wales and its people, lifestyle, gardening and much more. Here's a list of just some of the fascinating articles that feature in … [Read More...]
Recent Posts
Royal Welsh awards Nominations open for 201712 of the Royal Welsh Advisory Committees are currently considering who they will be nominating for four of this year’s Royal Welsh bursaries and … [Read More...]Plas y Brenin Has A New Range Of Mountain Bike CoursesPlas y Brenin is surrounded by some of the finest mountain biking routes in Europe. They have world class single track routes like the Marin Trail in … [Read More...]Welsh Country Magazine Photography CompetitionEach week our photography competition will be based on a different theme.  If you have a photograph which you think suits that theme then why not send … [Read More...]The National Library of Wales, Chaucer goes globalTwo of the National Library of Wales Chaucerian treasures have enjoyed world-wide acclaim during the last few months.
National Library of Wales most … [Read More...]
News Feed
Coleg Sir Gar, Ritz experience for hospitality studentA Coleg Sir Gar hospitality and leadership student has been perfecting her skills in fine dining and a service fit for royalty at The Ritz hotel in … [Read More...]Pembrokeshire Coast National Park – Find legendary fun this FebruaryIf you’re looking for a legendary day out this February half term, then look no further than Pembrokeshire Coast National Park Authority’s three fun … [Read More...]Three hundred chefs head for Welsh International Culinary ChampionshipsFour days of intense competitions and mouth-watering cooking by some of the best chefs in Europe. That’s the successful recipe for the Welsh … [Read More...]Cynth Weyman exhibition – Creative JourneysCynth Weyman ’s ‘Creative Journeys’ major solo exhibition will be hoted by State of the art Theatr Ffwrness, Llanelli from February 28th to 8th April … [Read More...]Royal Welsh – Valentine’s Day #LoveRoyalWelsh give-awayWith Valentine’s Day just around the corner, Royal Welsh thought they would share some love.
Are you one of the many happy couples who have meet at … [Read More...]Royal Welsh Winter Fair Committee – Alwyn Rees takes the helmMeeting for the first time since the successful two-day event back in November, the Royal Welsh Winter Fair committee gathered yesterday (Monday 6 … [Read More...]National Park Authority consulting on draft Corporate PlanThe Pembrokeshire Coast National Park Authority is consulting on its draft Corporate Plan for 2017/18, which sets out its main work programme and … [Read More...]Alison Lochhead MRBS donates percentage of sale of work to UNICEFAlison Lochhead a Ceredigion sculptor, has recently been accepted as a member of the prestigious Royal British Society of Sculptors which is an … [Read More...]
Email Newsletter
Sign up to receive our newsletter and find out what's going on around Wales.
Name E-Mail Address
This Issue’s Features
Walking Wales – Pen y FanStories In Stone – Dic AberdaronFishing – Welsh CanalsPictorial Wales – Nigel J BevansGardening – The Winter Garden
About Us
Contact Us
Mission Statement
Advertising
Terms & Conditions
Hours & Info
Welsh Country Magazine, Aberbanc,
Llandysul, Ceredigion, SA44 5NP01559 372010Open: 9am - 5pm
Closed: Saturday - Sunday
STAY CONNECTED
© Welsh Country Magazine 2016. All Rights Reserved
0
Your Cart
