London 2012 – Atkins
Skip to main content
ABOUT THE GROUP
ANGLES
CAREERS
INVESTORS
MEDIA
EVENTS
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY
CONTACT
Search & Tools
Search within Atkins website
More specific search? Try these
Project showcase
Angles publication platform
Create PDF document
Add web pages to PDF bundle for download
How to use PDF generator
0
Pages in bundle
View / Manage bundle
Page successfully added to PDF Creator
Page successfully removed from PDF Creator
Group
Asia Pacific
Middle East
North America
UK & Europe
Sectors & Services
Projects
Locations
http://www.atkinsglobal.com/en-GB/about-the-group/london-2012
Atkins at a glanceOur purposeOur clientsOur brandsOur websitesOur productsOur historyAwardsLondon 2012
London: Engineered for 2012
Our publications
We have a responsibility
to help move the worldforward, one step at a time
About the Group
Home
>
About the Group
>
London 2012
London 2012
Atkins is proud to have been the engineering design expert behind London 2012.
Our selection as the official engineering design services provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games showcased our people’s technical excellence, our ability to deliver world class infrastructure projects and our sector leadership position.
OUR LEGACY
As the first official engineering design services provider to an Olympic Games, we led the sector and showcased the London 2012 Games as a feat of engineering excellence, demonstrating the breadth and quality of career opportunities in engineering and design.
OUR WORK
Our extensive work on the London 2012 Games comprised delivery of the site-wide enabling works to support the development of the Olympic Park, detailed engineering design of earthworks, drainage, landscaping and electrical supply in the Park, development of bridges, structures and highways around the Park, Environmental Impact Assessments and ecology/biodiversity services, and the delivery of 100 temporary venues and facilities across the country, including overlay design, utilities, building services, acoustics, fire and accessibility. We are now working with the London Legacy Development Corporation (LLDC) to oversee the technical transformation of the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park from Games venue into an exciting new visitor destination and community park.
CARBON CRITICAL DESIGN
We developed the technical blueprint to create new standards of carbon critical design. We helped LOCOG to compile the Temporary Materials Handbook which offers guidance on the sustainable selection and reuse of materials for temporary venues.
Excellence is in our DNA, and that’s why we are truly proud to associate with the London 2012 Games.
LONDON 2012 VIDEO
Our London 2012 film showcases our Olympic journey delivering the world’s biggest sporting event.
Watch the video
LONDON 2012 MAP
Our technical expertise touched every element of London’s infrastructure in 2012.
View our interactive map
Our Olympic feature articles showcase all aspects of our London 2012 journey
Browse our feature articles
Contact Us
Local contacts in our regional offices can be found in the Locations section.
Local
language websites exist for Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Asia
Pacific. To see a full list of our websites, go to the Our websites page.
In the Sector and Service part of the website, relevant
regional contacts have been identified.
Faithful+Gould is a
member of the Atkins group of companies.
General enquiries
Stay informed
Register for our news alerts and receive the latest news and events
Register
Connect with us
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Google+
YouTube
Pinterest
SlideShare
Instagram
Essentials
ACCESSIBILITY STATEMENT
ALERTS
CONTACT US
DISCLAIMER
STATUTORY AND REGULATORY DISCLOSURES
PRIVACY
RSS
SITE MAP
SOCIAL MEDIA
SOCIAL HUB
Most computers will open PDF documents automatically, but you may need to download Adobe Reader.
