Beach Volleyball England Olympic bid
Beach Volleyball
Home
About
Building a Beach Court
Contact
European
Champs. Blackpool
Events & World Class Courts
First FIVB Event
Net systems
Picture Gallery
Sponsors
The Game
Volleyball Beach Tour Schedules
Volleyball Jargon
Olympic level athletic
skill and action, all played out in a fun, party atmosphere - when it comes to audience appeal, few sports
come close to Beach Volleyball...
If you are looking to build a Beach court or stage an event, you have come to the right place! Our people have managed tournaments and the construction of beach courts all over the world, from simple one-off lesiure facilities to multi-court stadiums for World Tour events. BVUK has the skills and knowledge to help you get the best value for money and maximise the return from your sporting investment.
From delivering the UK's first FIVB International tournament in 2007 to our European Championship Tour English Masters and Swatch FIVB Junior World Championship, Beach Volleyball UK Ltd has confirmed its position as the only UK company with professional volleyball people experienced in planning and managing all aspects of World Class tournaments.
Two weeks of international beach volleyball brought 29,000 people to Blackpool and put £12.5million in the local economy according to an independent economic impact assessment.
Beach volleyball has a huge following in the rest of the world.
The sport's premier series - The FIVB World Tour - visits 21 cities in 16 host countries and attracts a million spectators. Prize money stands at $10million and the tournament TV coverage reaches an estimated 620 million households.
It
is attracting growing interest here in the UK and we are
seeking sponsors to join us in building the British audience for the fastest growing Olympic sport.
If the UK is to be top-of-the-game in future years, we must raise it's profile here now and help its governing bodies bring our up-and-coming players to World Tour standard.
Want help building a beach court?... looking for the 'right' sand?...... click HERE »
Help put UK Beach Volleyball at the top of the game - call 0844 2849 75560 or email CLICK HERE »
Beach Volleyball UK Ltd is an independent company supporting growth of Beach Volleyball in the UK. It is the only UK company with a dedicated team of professional volleyball people who plan and manage
technical and sport aspects of World Class tournaments from European to World Tour and Olympic level
beach volleyball UK home | about UK beach volleyball
| contact us | volleyball sponsors
event picture gallery | courts and tournaments | beach volleyball jargon | the game
coaching and training at www.beachvolleyballinc.com
Blackpool International Tournaments | www.wessexvolleyball.comMoncler Outlet UK
Copyright© 2007-2015 Beach Volleyball UK Limited
The Beach Volleyball UK Ltd Logo is a Trade Mark of Beach Volleyball UK Limited
Beach Volleyball Premier League™ and Premier League Beach Volleyball™ are the copyright
and Trade Marks of Beach Volleyball UK Limited
England beach volleyball | olympic games volleyball | sponsorship | beach volleyball sand
UK beach volleyball | sponsoring beach volleyball | london | england | build a beach court
If the upper number on the watch is luxury, so all kinds of rolex replica hand Wenwan circle on absolutely luxury in the submarine. Left hand a piece of Rolex, the right hand a bunch of OMEGA, even if you are wearing a linen clothes, estimated that no one dare to look down on you. Now, watch with hand string has become a scenic spot on men's wrist. Which hand should be worn on the watch? have a kind of That is, the man's table to wear the left hand, and dial back at the direction of, have a watch, atmosphere. Ms. table wearing a right hand dial palm direction, turn the wrist watch table, feminine full. Of ulysse nardin replica course, people used to watch is worn on the left hand, right hand things because wear will be very inconvenient. Except, of course, left handed. But in medicine, the law is completely different. If Men will watch worn on the left hand, the watchband is made of rolex uk what material, gold, silver, plastic or leather, will affect the normal work of the heart, and the woman is very lucky, no change will form the habit of wearing on his left. So watch the man wearing the right hand, the woman wearing his left hand, with medical care.
