New contemporary British sculpture by Ben Dearnley
Benjamin C Dearnley | Sculptor
Home
News
Current News
Press
Public Art
Featured Project
Galleries
Marble
Bronze
Stone, Steel & Glass
Equestrian
Commissions
Avenue of Champions
Olympian 2012
Tennis Girl
International
Australia
The italian diaries
The italian diaries 2
Selected writings
Workshops
Biography
C.V.
Contact
Contemporary sculptures in marble, bronze, stone, glass and steel...
Ben carves many of his timeless works from statuary marble which he collects  himself from deep in the heart of The Alpi Apaune Mountains of Italy. He has works in many public and private collections from the Royal Academy of Music in London, to Australia, Hong Kong, South Africa, the USA, throughout Europe and the UK. He is represented by the Belgravia Gallery, London.
Based on the wild west coast of the UK where the Atlantic meets the Irish sea, crashing onto the shores of Cardigan bay, Ben creates  his work using the best materials he can get his hands on, often mixing the media for different pieces and projects. He is always open to new ideas and commissions, like working with the Thomas Heatherwick studio, London where he carved an image of Queen Victoria in brickwork for the new Bombay Sapphire Gin distillery.....
Back in 2012 along with a solo show at Salisbury Cathedral, he completed 3 huge bath stone carvings in the World Heritage City of Bath. One being for the HRH Prince of Wales and the Princes Trust. In 2014 two major commissions coming from the Welsh Assembly and Bacardi were completed. 2015 saw the finalisation of Ben's huge sculpture projects in Australia, ending with the creation of the first Upper Hunter Valley Arts Trail.
'I hope you will enjoy looking through my web site, I welcome visitors to my studio by arrangement. Please do get in touch with that idea and see what can be done to make it a reality.'
fragments of our time...
New contemporary British sculpture by Ben Dearnley ,
Bronzes,
Marble works, Stone carving, Body casting, Olympic Sculpture and Portraiture - TEAM BCD / All contents ©
2015 / Design by Paul Squire
