The British Water Polo League - Home
British Water Polo League
Home
News
Gallery
Teams
Fixtures
By Date
By Team
By Venue
Men's Super 5s
Men's Champ 1
Men's Champ 2
Men's Champ 3
Men's Champ 4
Women's Super 5s
Women's Champ 1
Women's Champ 2
Results
Men's Super 5s
Men's Champ 1
Men's Champ 2
Men's Champ 3
Men's Champ 4
Women's Super 5s
Women's Champ 1
Women's Champ 2
Men's Division 1
Men's Division 2
Men's Division 3
Men's Division 4
Men's Division 5
Women's Division 1
Women's Division 2
Women's Division 3
Rules
Info
History
Past Winners
Archive
NWPL
NWWPL
CRUNCH TIME IN THE SUPER FIVES!
What a thrilling conclusion is guaranteed when both the women's and men's Super 5s reach their finale weekend at Gloucester's GL1 Pool on 18/19 March! The situation in both competitions could hardly be more open after the latest round of matches at Lancaster. It looks like this:​Women: City of Manchester hold a narrow one-point lead over champions Liverpool Lizards and Otter - but still have to play both their rivals.​Men: Leaders Cheltenham are two points ahead of Lancaster - who they face in their opening match at Gloucester.The latest round of Super 5s fixtures at Lancaster saw Otter women battle very much back into contention when a goal just six seconds from the end by Cicely Turner earned a 6-5 victory over Liverpool. It was the Lizards' first Super 5s defeat in three seasons.Cheltenham, men's champions for the past two years, would already have one hand on the trophy once again but for their day one defeat by Solihull. But they put their title bid back on course with a 16-9 defeat of Caledonia.Rotherham Metro lead men's Championship 4 with a perfect record from five matches. See news and fixtures pages for all the details.​​​​​​Action photos above (by Trevor Hyde) are from recent matches. L-R: Chris Icely (Polytechnic), Henry Redman (Cheltenham) and Sarah Connolly (Otter).​
FOLLOW THE BEST IN BRITISH WATER POLO!
Welcome to the website of the BWPL, UK water polo's premier league competition!!The British Water Polo League was launched in 2010 following the successful merger of the men's National League and the National Women's Water Polo League. We have gone from strength to strength since then and the 2016/17 season features a full complement of 64 teams - 40 men's and 24 women's.Particular thanks to James Reddick, of Polytechnic, for his help in creating this website. For more information about advertising, please contact BWPL Secretary Chris Ducker, chris.ducker@bwpl.org.
Use code 'BWPL' and save 10%on travel insurance.
The British Water Polo League
✕
