Coca-Cola European Partners
Coca-Cola European Partners
Home
About us
Overview
Our Business
Sites and Offices
Coca-Cola History
Working For Us
Contact Us
Our Products
Overview
Our Brands
Sustainability Commitments
Overview
Our Commitment
Energy and Climate Change
Sustainable Packaging and Recycling
Water Stewardship
Wellbeing: Product Portfolio
Wellbeing: Active Lifestyles
Community
Workplace
Our Sustainability Framework
Trade
Overview
Customer Hub
Suppliers
Supplier Guiding Principles
Vending
Contact Us
Contact information
News & Events
Careers
Coca-Cola European Partners
Coca-Cola European Partners is the world’s largest independent Coca-Cola bottler. CCEP GB makes, sells and distributes soft drinks for every occasion and we sell more than four billion bottles and cans every year. We make 97 per cent of our products in GB - a fact we are proud to put on our cans and bottles.
Our Company
Coca-Cola European Partners is the world’s largest independent Coca-Cola bottler. CCEP is the sole licensed bottler for products of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) in Andorra, Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain, Iceland, Luxemburg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Sweden.
In Great Britain (GB) we employ some 4,000 people across England, Scotland and Wales at manufacturing sites, offices and depots.
Want to do business with us?
To find out more about how CCEP can support your business, contact our Customer Hub:
Phone: 0808 1 000 000
Email: Connect@ccep.com
Made in GB
We are proud to be recognised as a local business with a strong regional presence. Our products are made at six sites across Great Britain, from Sidcup in Kent to East Kilbride in Scotland.
We are CCEP report
1.13mb
We are proud to have been making soft drinks in GB for over 100 years, with a 'Made in GB' stamp on all our packs.
Sustainability
We aim to grow more while using less, setting the industry standard in sustainable packaging, including a bold plan to reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third by 2020.
We are innovating our packaging - lightweighting our 500ml Coca-Cola bottles using 27% less packaging than we did in 2007 to reduce our environmental impact, and using 25% recycled plastic in our bottles and 50% recycled aluminium in our cans. As we look to reduce packaging use further, we are removing the cardboard trays from our multipacks and have introduced a smaller closure on our plastic bottles.
Latest tweets
Coca-Cola EP
@CocaColaEP
31 Jan
Deposit Return Systems: What Are They and What Does Coca-Cola Think About Them? https://t.co/SVOlZ7Q7ox
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
Coca-Cola EP
@CocaColaEP
30 Jan
Our Company Secretary, Clare Wardle, has been voted one of GB’s top lawyers @TheLawyermag #Hot100… https://t.co/EtiynEuoiT
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
Coca-Cola EP
@CocaColaEP
26 Jan
Only 1 in 5 companies working with suppliers to lower emissions says @CDP. Find out more here: https://t.co/nTYt58qKzg #CDPSupplyChain
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
Follow @CocaColaEP on Twitter
News & Events
Coca-Cola European Partners invests £2.3m into East Kilbride Manufacturing
Wednesday 23 November, 2016
CCEP unveils new £4.5M Coca-Cola Zero Sugar advertising campaign
Monday 23 January, 2017
Zero sugar sales set for Monster rise as new Citron variant is unleashed
Monday 23 January, 2017
Abbey Well Spring Water launches new look ‘twist’ bottle and label for recycling ease
Monday 12 December, 2016
View all News & Events
Back to top
Coca-Cola European Partners
Follow us on
Contact
Global Sites
Coca-Cola GB
Accessibility
Terms of use
Privacy
Cookies
© 2017 Coca-Cola European Partners "Coca-Cola" is a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company
Coca-Cola European Partners uses cookies to ensure you have the best experience. If you continue without changing your settings, we’ll assume that you are happy to accept these cookies.
Continue
Share page
