Home | Official Site of Jessica Ennis-Hill
Toggle navigation
About Jess
Social Media
Team Jennis
Career
Video Gallery
www.vitalitymove.co.uk
Click Here
Click Here
Watch Jessica
Click Here
Check out Jess' career timeline
Read the latest news
Click Here
NEWS
Jessica to launch London 2017 mascot design competition
Dame Jessica Ennis-Hill and Richard Whitehead MBE are teaming up with iconic BBC children’s television show Blue Peter to launch the official mascot design competition for this summer’s IAAF World Championships in London.
Read more
Jessica Ennis-Hill to get 2011 Worlds gold after Chernova results annulled
Britain’s Jessica Ennis-Hill is “so happy” she will be awarded her third World Championship heptathlon gold medal, after Tatyana Chernova was stripped of the 2011 title.
Read more
Jessica Ennis-Hill on retiring and her future
Jessica Ennis-Hill will not be seeking the limelight in retirement so it was perhaps fitting that she announced it last Thursday with only her dog for company. After dropping two-year-old son Reggie at nursery, she was walking chocolate Labrador Myla in the woods near their Sheffield home and hit send on her phone, publishing an […]
Read more
ABOUT JESS
Jessica Ennis-Hill won Heptathlon gold at the London 2012 Olympic Games.
She is a former World and European champion and one of Great Britain’s most decorated athletes.
Jessica retired from athletics in October 2016.
Jessica grew up in Sheffield, England where she still lives with husband Andy, their son Reggie, and chocolate labrador Myla.
She is a patron of The Children’s Hospital Charity and Weston Park Hospital Cancer Charity and supports Breakthrough Breast Cancer.
Read More
SOCIAL MEDIA
GALLERY
Photo 33
Photo 32
Photo 31
Photo 30
Photo 29
Photo 27
Photo 26
Photo 25
Photo 24
Photo 23
Photo 22
Photo 21
Photo 20
Photo 19
Photo 18
SPONSORS
CHARITIES
CONTACT
COMMERCIAL ENQUIRIES
Please contact JCCM:
Email: office@jccm-uk.com
JCCM Ltd – Head Office
12 Whiteladies Road, Clifton, Bristol,
BS8 1PD
t: +44 (0) 117 325 0624
m: +44 (0) 7795 681 678
FAN MAIL
We are only able to return autograph requests with stamped addressed envelopes or packaging.
Autograph cards require an A5 envelope – PLEASE attach a first or second class letter postage stamp.
If you are sending books, or items to be signed please check with the Royal Mail for postage costs.
Please note Jessica answers all fan mail personally so please be patient on return times.
Send all fan mail to JCCM Ltd, 12 Whiteladies Road, Clifton, Bristol, BS8 1PD
WEBSITE & VIDEO ENQUIRIES
Please contact us by email: phil@contentod.co.uk
Copyright 2016 Jessica Ennis-Hill. Created by Totaal. Managed by Content on Demand
