Olympic torch route announced
Menu Login Book an Ad Kent Business KentHomes KentJobs
kmfm live My Kent Family
Sunday, February 19 2017
Share
The UK's fastest-growing regional news network
Sun 12°C |
8°C
Mon 15°C |
9°C
Tue 13°C |
10°C
See the full forecast for your area.Sponsored by Britelite.
News
Today's news Business news Weather Traffic Send us your story Complaints Digital archive Digital newspapers News alerts kmfm update Blogs Buy a photo
School Closures
Sport
Gillingham Football Olympics Hockey Kent cricket Motorsports Sport columns Other sport Medway Sports Awards
What's On
What's On news Movie news What's On reviews Find things to do Local restaurants Music News KM Exhibitions Stage News Submit a listing Food and Drink
Where I Live
Ashford Canterbury Dartford Deal Dover Faversham Folkestone Gravesend Herne Bay Hythe Maidstone Malling
Medway Romney Marsh Sandwich Sevenoaks Isle of Sheppey Sittingbourne Tenterden Thanet Tonbridge Tunbridge Wells Weald Whitstable
Lifestyle
Charities Competitions Dating Gardening Holidays kmfm Photo sales Wedding Day School Closures
Buy, Sell & Tell
Book a digital advert
Book your press advert Family announcements Jobs Kent Marketplace Property Public notices Pets' Corner FindIt365 - advertise online
Local Businesses
Jobs
Traffic
KMTV
Contact
Customer services KM offices About the KM Media Group Website feedback Work for us
Other KM sites
My Kent Family Book an Ad kmfm KentHomes KentJobs KentMotors Kent Business
Home   Kent   News   Article
Olympic torch route announced
19 March 2012 by Danny Boyle
dboyle@thekmgroup.co.uk
The exact route the Olympic torch will take through Kent on its way to London has been revealed this morning. The flame will spend longer in the county than any other in the UK - passing through 37 towns and villages. It will arrive on July 17 and leave around four days later. The precise streets the iconic beacon will travel down and proposed start times can be viewed by clicking here. Among the places the torch will visit are Canterbury Cathedral, the Channel Tunnel and the Turner Contemporary Gallery in Margate. People will be able to line the route to cheer as it makes its way to the capital in time for the opening ceremony just over a week later. There will also be two evening celebration stops in Dover (July 18) and Maidstone (July 19) as well as lunchtime stops at two Kent locations, eight photo stops and two breakfast stops. The Olympic flame will be carried across the UK by 8,000 torchbearers - each with a story of personal achievement or contribution to their community. Olympic torchbearers Julie Chilcott and Melwyn Moore Among them will be Maidstone residents Julia Chilcott and Melwyn Moore. Julia, from Allington, was selected for her commitment to foster caring. The 55-year-old said: "I was nominated because I have been fostering for more than 25 years. I wanted to give something back and I have always worked with children so this was the perfect opportunity. I have fostered more than 80 children over the years. It's an honour to have been picked and I'm very excited." Melwyn, is a 47-year-old detective sergeant for Kent Police from Fant, has run 21 London Marathons over the last 21 consecutive years. He said: "I'm chuffed to bits. It's a really great opportunity and it all about the involvement." Dover Channel swimmer Sam Jones will carry the torch through Upstreet, near Canterbury. Her first attempt across the Channel was unsuccessful, but she battled against the odds to make a second attempt in 2008, which she completed in 16 hours 34 minutes. The 70-day Olympic torch relay will start at Land's End on the morning of May 19, 2012. On leaving Land's End, the Olympic flame will travel an estimated 8,000 miles around the UK giving thousands of communities and individuals the chance to watch. On the final day of the Olympic torch relay, it is planned that the flame will travel down the River Thames as it makes its way to the Olympic Stadium for the start of the Games on Friday, July 27. Mike Hill, KCC cabinet member for customer and communities, said: "This is an exciting time for everyone to see where the torch will visit and to plan how they will celebrate the torch's arrival. We are delighted that Kent will be its host for four days, giving residents and the county the chance to be a real part of Olympic history." Sandra Matthews-Marsh, chief executive at Visit Kent, said: "We are delighted that so many of the county's iconic attractions will be showcased in the long route being taken by the torch through Kent and Medway in addition to the key events at Dover and Leeds Castle, near Maidstone. "2012 is a marvellous opportunity for Kent and the torch procession will be a truly memorable occasion not only for local residents but for all the visitors from across the South East and across the Channel who are planning to join us for our celebrations."
Click here for more news from Kent.
Click here for more news from around the county.
Most Read Most Commented
Woman 'raped in park'
Huge turn-out for popular man's funeral
14
Child found in footwell of car
2
One injured after van overturns
17
Racist footballer smashed elbow into opponent's face
21
Pizza chain stocks up at supermarket
8
VIDEO: Van ends up on roof after crash
40
Dad who lost son in stabbing found guilty of stalking
93
iPhone buyer sent toy mouse
88
Gills boss: They can't defend to save their lives
72
Gills’ winless run extended to 10
60
Dozens of ‘female genital mutilation’ cases in Kent
40
Dump Trump protest planned
40
Dad who lost son in stabbing found guilty of stalking
39
Anger of Jag owner after catapult yobs damage car
36
Outraged customers pay more ‘Bucks’ for a coffee
Useful links
Book an ad
Media pack Local businesses KM digital archive KM e-edtions
Helpful links
Advertise with us Contact Us & KM offices KentOnline Facebook KentOnline Twitter KentBusiness Facebook KentBusiness Twitter KMCreate - KM Media Group's digital agency KM history - Find out about the company Sitemap Send us your story Terms and Conditions
Things to do in Kent Useful guides What's On in Kent
RSS News Feeds
Kent Business KentOnline Dartford Messenger East Kent Mercury Folkestone Express Gravesend Messenger Kent Messenger Kentish Express Kentish Gazette Medway Messenger Sheerness Times Guardian Sittingbourne Messenger Thanet Extra
RSS Sport Feeds
KentOnline Dartford Messenger East Kent Mercury Folkestone Express Gillingham FC news Gillingham FC match reports Gravesend Messenger Kent Cricket Kent Messenger Kentish Express Kentish Gazette Medway Messenger Sheerness Times Guardian Sittingbourne Messenger Thanet Extra
© KM Group 2017
