Olympics 2012
recent posts
log in
register
Libcom.org
blog
news
library
history
gallery
organise
forums
Search this site:
Home
Olympics 2012
Interview: inside the Carpenters Estate
In the run up to the London 2012 Olympics Newham council gradually emptied the nearby Carpenters Estate of tenants. In March 2010 a small anarchist newsheet, the East End Howler, interviewed one of the remaining tenants. In light of the recent occupation of the estate by Focus E15 Mothers we're republishing the interview here to provide a bit of background.
Serwotka sellout sets seal on Olympic exploitation
Submitted by Django on Jul 31 2012 16:05
Adam Ford on the PCS' aborted strike action, and the unions' Olympic failures.
Cleaners strike protest near London Olympic site
Submitted by Choccy on Jul 27 2012 14:54
Cleaners strike over pay and conditions on London Underground and Docklands Light Railway.
S02E004 - All Cops Are Bastards (redux)
An edition of the Novara radio show in discussion with James Butler (@PiercePenniless) and Fergus Jenkins speaking on behalf of the Network For Police Monitoring (@Netpol). The discussion looks at policing in the run up to the Olympics, the recent acquittal of PC Harwood for the death of Ian Tomlinson and the Hicks Judgement.
Olympic gold medal for gentrification
Submitted by working class s... on Apr 24 2012 19:08
The Conservative rent cap is being blamed for forcing people out of Newham, but is is all just part of our great Olympic legacy
Kettling 2.0: The Olympic State of Exception and TSG Action Figures
A piece by Dan Hancox discussing the restrictions on free assembly, freedom of movement and the commons in relation to the dismantling of the welfare state and the upcoming 2012 Olympics.
Cameron’s control freakery and paranoia
Submitted by working class s... on Nov 15 2011 18:02
Government ramps up the apparatus of state control ahead of the Olympics, which is part of a wider and more worrying trend.
Olympic Dream or Workers' Nightmare: An Inside Report on Health and Safety Conditions London 2012 Olympic Site
This report documents and critically analyses the working conditions of construction workers on the Stratford City development site of the 2012 Olympic Games. We base our findings entirely on the accounts of anonymous IWW and non-IWW construction workers employed there.
Building Worker newsletter - Autumn 2007
Newsletter containing articles on organising site workers ahead of the Olympics, fighting the blacklist in Manchester, pay and holiday pay, a recent strike against racism and the dangers of trusting union officials.
UK building workers to prepare for 2012 Olympics
Submitted by Divisive Cottonwood on Dec 1 2006 13:33
The Olympics will bring much new construction work to London, and some union activists look to the opportunity for a greater say both in the unions they are members of and in the industry itself.
1
2
next ›
last »
Featured
British perfidy in Greece: a story worth remembering - Ed Vulliamy and Helena Smith
An account of the time in 1944 when the British Army, at war with Germany switched their allegiance, opening fire upon – and arming Greek collaborators with the Nazis to fire upon – a civilian...
We carry our failures: working with people in a dehumanizing system - Scott Nappalos
Scott Nappalos writes about the challenges of salvaging human interactions and compassion while working in a profiteering healthcare system that renders impotent patients and healthcare workers...
Comments (4)
I punched my boss in the face
A delivery driver's account of, well, punching his boss in the face after being threatened with a pay cut. Which strangely enough got his boss to reverse the cut!
Comments (45)
Log in for more features
Click here to register now. Logged in users:
▶ Can comment on articles and discussions
▶ Get 'recent posts' refreshed more regularly
▶ Bookmark articles to your own reading list
▶ Use the site private messaging system
▶ Start forum discussions, submit articles, and more...
blog
Ruptura Colectiva - RC
-
CRAC-PC: take the arms and the destiny of our lives in Guerrero, Mexico
Soapy
-
Hillary Clinton’s complaints about the spread of “fake news” belie her contributions to it
Victory Of The People
-
Strategies for resistance under neoliberalism: lessons from the Zapatistas and the Landless Workers' Movement
news
On the necessity of destruction
Montana Wobblies, Antifa Out-Organize Nazis
Against factional struggles in ruling classes/elites
library
Worker sabotage in a financial services call centre
An interview with Nigerian anarchist Sam Mbah
World War II: reading guide
history
The Winnipeg general strike, 1919 - Sam Lowry
1921-1944: The crushing of the FAUD by Hitler
An interview with Tony Mcqade, former shop steward.
libcom.org
about |
donate |
help out |
submitting content |
other languages |
a-z |
contact us |
site notes
