Overcome the obstacles in your life. Get help from us.
Coping When You’re Overwhelmed
Coping with a Serious Diagnosis
Coping with Adversity
Dealing with Setbacks
Getting Maximum Casino Bonus Values
Living to the fullest
Making Your Fear Work for You
Moving from Negative to Positive Thinking
Overcoming Marital Challenge
Some Tips to Handling Stress in the Moment
Strategies for Dealing with Depression
The Challenge of Being a Single Parent
The Challenge of Firing People
The Challenges of Starting a Business
When Its Time to Grieve
Recent Posts
Cruz Challenges Trump to Debate
Justin Trudeau Joins Caroling Challenge
Triple H on Challenging Year for WWE
New Prime Minster Faces a Challenge
Skateboarding & Surfing Possibly Added to 2020 Olympics
Archives
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
We all face challenges in life and frequently find ourselves in situations that force us to look at the big picture and decide what we need to do in order to overcome these obstacles and move forward. Often, that is as simple as trying a new methodology throughout the course of our usual everyday activities – “thinking outside of the box” is the buzz phrase that is often employed in these instances. Frequently, just assessing the circumstance and taking the risk of doing something that you wouldn’t normally do will easily put you over the hurdle.
In other situations, a great deal more work is required and on some occasions, one must make a sweeping change that will mitigate the direction that their life has taken up until this point. In doing so, it is necessary to cut beyond the surface of the way you think and react to circumstances and analyzing your reasons for making the decisions that you would normally make under that degree of stress. Each of our lives is lived primarily from our own unique point of view and based on the values that we have all developed throughout the course of our lives. This has been influenced by parents, teachers, friends, colleagues, the media and more and we all interpret every external influence uniquely. Understanding the basis for your interpretation may assist you in understanding yourself as an individual, seeing the path you took to get there and making an informed choice about where you want to go next.
Much of that is understanding your personal fears, desires and triggers and working either toward facing those and changing them or finding a way to incorporate them into your external life and use them to your advantage. Many challenges that we encounter are based primarily on these underlying factors borne of stories that we carry from our childhood and the resultant effects that they had on our development. Issues around our parental relationships, dealing with poverty, being bullied by peers and other impactful situations buried deep in our subconscious can influence the manner in which we perceive life as a whole and thus determine how we choose to live. For example, those who grew up in situations of poverty might establish a core value of being financially secure and thus, making money is prioritized over relationships and leisure. On the other hand, someone having that type of childhood might understand that money does not bring happiness and their adult life may reflect that value in a number of different ways. The same background might drive people to pursue ways in which they can make a greater change in the world by seeking out ways to help people who are experiencing similar situations.
Regardless of the challenges one will face in life, the one constant factor is that we each perceive those circumstances uniquely and will be able to overcome them most effectively by gaining a deeper knowledge of what is most significant to us as individuals and making the choices that best serve our own authenticity, trying hard not to be influenced by the opinions and agendas of those that surround us. In doing so, we are then able to perceive obstacles simply as another opportunity to explore ourselves more deeply and clear the path to enable us to enjoy our lives.
Proudly powered by WordPress.
Theme: Flat 1.7.7 by Themeisle.
