www.specialolympicswales.co.uk
Special Olympics Wales is Affiliated to Special Olympics Great Britain (SOGB)
Home
About us
Newsletter
Sports
Training
Events
Media Centre
Sponsor's
Contact Us
Online Forms
Links
FAQ'S
site admin
Home
Games week summary 2009
Team Wales start to walk into Walkers Stadium
Riverdance at the Special Olympics in  Ireland
Our Mission Is Clear
To provide year-round sports training and competition in a variety of Olympic-type sports for people with learning disabilities giving them the continuing opportunities to develop physical fitness, demonstrate courage, experience joy and participate in a sharing of skills, and friendship with their families, other Special Olympics athletes and the community.
You may have thought that Special Olympics was just a few days of games once or twice a year – In reality, the training for competition never stops and is as important as the competition itself. Special Olympics is a lifetime of learning through sport and involves individuals with a learning disability of all ages and ability levels – from low motor abilities to highly-skilled athletes.
The Special Olympics movement was founded in 1968 by Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the sister of President John F Kennedy, who believed that the Olympic ideals of sport could give confidence and new hope to people with learning disabilities as well as to those who cared for them. Special Olympics now reaches over 2.25 million athletes in 160 countries worldwide.
Mrs Eunice Kennedy Shriver is still actively involved in Special Olympics but more recently her son, Timothy P Shriver Ph.D has taken on the role of Chairman of the Board of Special Olympics based out of the organisation’s head office in Washington.
Special Olympics Great Britain (SOGB) was established in 1978 as part of Special Olympics Inc. SOGB is a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee. Special Olympics Wales (S.O.W.) we have grown steadily to reach our present position where we have more than 20 groups in Wales offering more than twenty sports in our training and competition programme
Our Aims
To provide quality sports training 48 weeks in each year - to encourage fitness, commitment and discipline through sport
To provide as many Special Olympics athletes with the opportunity to participate, train and compete in as wide a variety of sports and events as possible
To provide quality Coaching
To help athletes develop social skills and build friendships through the interaction and team spirit of their sports training and competition
To provide athletes with the experience of new cultures when travelling abroad
To encourage athletes to compete and participate rather than have an emphasis on winning
To promote the inclusion of people with a learning disability in mainstream sport
FACT: There are an estimated 1.2 million children and adults with a learning disability in Great Britain.
* Registered as a Charity in accordance with the Charities Act 1960 No. 800329
* Special Olympics Created by The Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation
* Registered Office: Suffolk House, George Street, Croydon CRO 0YN
* Company Limited by Guarantee and Registered in England and Wales No. 2301452
* Website design and maintenence by Andrew Beynon
