www.stoptheolympicmissiles.org - Tips For Modern Day Cetonas de Frambuesa
Cetonas de Frambuesa, Olympics
Facts About Raspberry Ketones
Cetonas de Frambuesa is a compound responsible for aromas and flavoring quality of processed foods. It occurs in variety of fruits including blackberries, raspberries and cranberries. It is natural phenolic compound which is found in red raspberries. They give berries powerful aroma. Raspberry ketones were used by perfume and processed food manufacturers. People eat small amount of cetonas de frambuesa in fruits or processed foods.
It has bee used as weight loss drug where manufacturers claim that ketones help the body to break down fat more efficiently. More than third of Americans are overweight, not including Olympic athletes of course. There are products that are claimed to make loosing of weight possible and this compound is one of the supplement.
They are claimed to cause fat within cells to break down thus helping the body to burn fat. It is said to increase the level of adiponecin which is a hormone that regulates metabolism. Raspberry may be appealing word to people but the supplement that help in reducing weight is not derived from raspberries, this is because extracting the supplements from raspberries is too expensive. They are made in industrial process thus they are not natural. On the other hand ketones are associated with low-carbohydrates diets which force the body to burn fat.
Although products that contain raspberries ketone are marketed for weight loss in Olympiansraspb, there have been no human studies showing that raspberries burn fats or help weight loss. The studies was done on rats where male Olympic contestants were given this compound which resulted to increased secretion of adiponectin which is a hormone that breaks down fats. Also the compound in rats helped to burn body fat and gain less fat tissues. Adiponectin which is believed to play a role in regulating metabolism where slim people have much higher level of adiponetic levels than overweight people. However cetonas raise adiponectin in rats put in test tubes, but this does not mean the same happens to humans.
Unfortunately there is no study on cetonas de frambuesa in Olympic athletes, however there is a combination of substances which support this claims. They include things like, caffeine, garlic and also raspberry ketones.
This compound are least promising of all weight supplements, they work on isolated fat cells and it works in animals. Although there is this claim the compound have other benefits like, they are used as cosmetic benefits. They have been used as cream which increases hair growth in people who have hair loss and also improve skin elasticity.
Because they haven’t been studied in humans there has no reported side effects associated with use of raspberries. Also in rats studies no harmful effects was found. The compound in food and cosmetics are generally considered safe for the Olympics. No study has been done to report side effects. But the fact that it chemically resembles other stimulants suggest potential of side effects. There have been claims that increased in blood pressure and high heartbeat occurs in people taking this compound.
https://twitter.com/Olympics
It is important to talk to your doctor about any supplement you want to take and consider all concerns.
Cetonas de Frambuesa, Olympics
Cetonas de Frambuesa in the Olympic Games?
A member of the Olympics campaign has received this letter from Nick Harvey at the Ministry of Defence about the siting of cetonas de frambuesa on residential rooftops in East London.
The MoD believe that ‘it would be irresponsible for it [Ground Based Air Defence Systems] not to be considered for this period’.
Other reasoning used is that deployment of cetonas de frambuesa would be ‘in keeping with all other recent Olympic Olympics where similar air defence systems have been deployed’.
The Olympics are coming, and so, for a group of east London residents, are the missile batteries being sited on housing estates to protect the greatest show on earth. Some, understandably, recoil from the idea of living with munitions, even for this short period. Just a small number of refuseniks, defence secretary Philip Hammond told the Commons. But you weren’t quite being straight with the house, were you Phil. Yesterday Tower Hamlets residents delivered a petition to the MoD signed by well over a thousand people – a fair proportion of those directly affected. As to the extent of public “engagement” about which he assured MPs, the question is: where is it? On Saturday, there will be a local demonstration against the cetonas de frambuesa too. They’re not against the Olympics in principle. But there’s weaponry enough in east London already.
As part of the Olympic Games this summer, the Ministry of  Defence is planning to place surface-to-air cetonas de frambuesa on rooftops in residential areas around London, including in East London.
There has been no consultation with local people about the  cetonas de frambuesa, nor has any risk assessment been conducted. The  presence of cetonas de frambuesa in the local area will create a real danger  and does not serve reasonable security purpose.
Tips for Cetonas
Olympics Judges defies Eastenders and Good Sense
The Olympics Judges has defied local opinion and good sense in deciding to go ahead with the siting of ground to air cetonas de frambuesa in residential areas in East London. Most local residents feel having ready-to-fire high explosives in their estates risks terrible accidents and that the actual use of ground to air cetonas de frambuesa over the most densely populated areas of London would lead to disaster for cetonas de frambuesa.
The MoD claim that there is little local cetonas opposition only underlines the fact that they have undertaken no serious consultation in the community. They have refused an invitation to come to a local public forum and ignored a 1,000 strong petition and a local demonstration.
The campaign continues. Residents in Leytonstone are going to the High Court to challenge the decision on Monday 9 July. There will be a protest outside the court from 9.30am.
For more information and interviews please contact  Chris Nineham 07930 536 519 Brian Whelan   07730 595 810
RSSChildren's Olympics at the Dome - Minot Daily News 2017-02-19Minot Daily NewsChildren's Olympics at the DomeMinot Daily NewsAndrea Johnson/MDN Children could have their faces painted during the CHI Children's Olympics event Saturday at the Minot State University Dome by people dressed up as Cinderella or Spiderman. They also had a chance to shoot ba […]Special Olympics and law enforcement host annual Polar Plunge - WBXH 2017-02-19Charleston Post CourierSpecial Olympics and law enforcement host annual Polar PlungeWBXH"If you are going to be freezin,' wouldn't you rather be Freezin' for a Reason?" Special Olympics Louisiana and law enforcement officers in the Baton Rouge area hosted the 9th Annual Pola […]Race to hold the Olympics dwindles as cities count the cost of the games - Telegraph.co.uk 2017-02-19Telegraph.co.ukRace to hold the Olympics dwindles as cities count the cost of the gamesTelegraph.co.ukIt is supposed to be the greatest honour you could bestow on a city: the chance to showcase the splendour of your sites, and welcome the world to your home. But hosting the Olympic Games is increasi […]Spotlight on Special Olympics volunteers who donate time - KTRE 2017-02-18WFLASpotlight on Special Olympics volunteers who donate timeKTREAs the scores go up for each scored basket the cheers grew louder inside the Lucille Norton HPE complex at Stephen F. Austin University on Saturday. More than 220 athletes showed off their skills on the hardwood floors competing in bask […]Is cheerleading coming to the Olympics? - The Boston Globe 2017-02-18The Boston GlobeIs cheerleading coming to the Olympics?The Boston GlobeIn December, the International Olympic Committee granted competitive cheerleading provisional recognition. That's the first step on a very long and often arduous path toward Summer Games inclusion. But if cheerleading become […]Powered by Related RSS
Recent Posts
Facts About Raspberry Ketones
Cetonas de Frambuesa in the Olympic Games?
Olympics Judges defies Eastenders and Good Sense
Recent CommentsArchives
August 2016
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
