Will's Blog and other thinkings from Equestrian Team GBR
Thursday, 6 September 2012
All done and dusted; home at last
The last day of competition at the London 2012 Equestrian Venue was another successful day for the British; Sophie Christiansen once again demonstrated her domination of 1a with Gold whilst Deborah Criddle and Sophie Wells rode their hearts out for 2 more Silvers.
So the final medal haul for the GBR Para-Equestrian team was 5 Gold, 5 Silver, 1 Bronze.
More medals than in Hong Kong, same number of Gold; but achieved with less athletes.
Will some have wanted a different colour to their medal? Maybe but we have once again shown that GBR sits very at the head of affairs in this sport.
It is a first for GBR and I suspect a first for the sport that one Nation won medals in each of the 5 Grades in both the Individual and Freestyle medals:
This is what we set out to do and so I feel it is “job well done”.
﻿
﻿
The Paralympic Equestrian Medal Table
These Games have seen a cataclysmic leap forward for the sport of Para-Equestrian Dressage.
10 Nations won medals and the quality of the horses, athletes and the standard of performances seen was demonstrated by the high marks awarded by the judges; the score that is now needed to win medals is far higher than ever in the past.
I admit that there were a few glasses of happy juice consumed on Tuesday evening but it was still an early start on Wednesday to strip out the stables and pack all the kit in to Sarah’s horsebox for the journey back to Bedfordshire and the storage that Sarah kindly provides at home.
There are also going to be some very very happy chickens at Sarah’s as they are going to have some of the netting seen at many of the venues to provide them with shade and shelter them from the wind & rain; happy chickens.
The horses, most grooms and Rod Fisher were collected by Mark Perry.
Mark is a hot contender for the “going beyond the call of duty” award.
On Monday he drove up to London......to clean a certain rider’s boots...said certain rider being very very superstitious.
How dare you doubt me?
Most of the staff departed Wednesday morning although Michelle Tipper has handed in her grooming kit and moved in to the Paralympic Village to help the athletes who will stay in London (enjoying a range of social events, media commitments as well as supporting other sports).
I returned to the hotel, changed and headed up to Russell Square for a meeting with
UK Sport to discuss.....the Rio 2016 funding submission.
No rest for the wicked!
I am home now and all unpacked.
ENDEX!﻿﻿
The Olympic Equestrian Medal Table
At the Olympics, 8 Nations won medals and GBR was top of the Medal Table for Equestrian.
GBR Equestrian won 7.69% of the Team GB Olympic medals with 2.40% of the Team GB athletes.
10.35% of the Gold medals won by Team GB were won by Equestrian athletes.
An iconic Venue where historic architecture met modern facilities design.
An equestrian venue that can be used as a benchmark for future Games and that demonstrated how a predominately “temporary” venue can have the feel of a permanent venue.
A venue, that combined with the LOCOG staff, volunteers, military and officials left me very very proud to be British.
Add to this the success Team GB and Paralympics GB had means I must now hunt for a different word to that of amazing.
I do not think the whole experience has really sunk in.
We set out to achieve more medals across more disciplines / grades combined with assisting Greenwich be the “best ever” equestrian venue.
I think we achieved that and I hope that we now have a base on which we can build; united, focused and without discord.
I fear the last of these hopes will only be party achieved.
﻿
Views from the top of the West Stand
One of my abiding memories will be standing right at the top of the West Stand watching a Medal Ceremony where GBR had won Gold; looking around, able to see across to the Olympic Stadium or across to the Millennium wheel it struck me just how privileged I
have been to be part of a truly historic moment in history for the sport of equestrian in Great Britain.
To sum it all up;
Farewell for now.
Posted by
www.bef.co.uk
at
Thursday, September 06, 2012
4 comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels:
Will's Blog
Monday, 3 September 2012
A day of two halves
First
Half.  Golden Girl Natasha did it again; she blew the opposition away and
landed a Gold medal winning 82.800%, over 5% ahead of the Silver
medallist.  Natasha has had a Games to remember, her first Paralympics and
well deserved by someone who has taken advantage of all the support on offer
through World Class and has a dedicated and talented Team around her.
Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant.
Second
Half.  Lee Pearson used all his talents to produce a Test in quality that
would have been well beyond what most riders could have achieved on a horse
that was not at the top of his game.  That is what 3 of the 5 judges
thought placing him in Silver, one Judge had Lee in 5th and one had
him in 11th.  Overall that put Lee in Bronze on 74.200% with
Silver going to Finland with a score of 74.250%.  As I have said before,
if you do not like being judged, do not do Dressage; I am not sure how much I
liked Dressage this afternoon – I think that is all I will say on that
subject.  Pepo Puch (AUT) thoroughly deserved Gold and heads home with two
medals, a wonderful achievement and thoroughly deserved.
I think I
will sign off now.
Posted by
www.bef.co.uk
at
Monday, September 03, 2012
No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels:
Will's Blog
Sunday, 2 September 2012
The girls take to the floor......
We wondered
whether 75.391 was enough for Lee to clinch his 10th Gold and it
turned out to be a case of “oh so close”. Joann Formosa clinched Australia’s
first Gold at Greenwich with 75.826% and Pepo Puch took Bronze on 75.043; oh oh
so close but a Silver medal is still a great achievement.
Oh so close
continued to be the cry today. A couple of mistakes meant Deborah Criddle,
who was drawn first to go, had to fight back to secure Silver; she landed a
71.267% and the last to go scored 71.233% - now that is close. It was
another close battle in Grade IV with Silver going to Sophie Wells with 76.323%
whilst Michele George (BEL) scored 77.065% to take Gold.
“So close”
ceased with the arrival of Sophie Christiansen on the Field of Play. A
superhuman effort by Sophie and Janeiro 6 posted a score of 82.750% which
assured her Gold; Ireland took Silver and Singapore Bronze.
Definition of
a very happy Gold medallist -
Sophie receiving her medal on the podium
The
conclusion of grade Ia also allowed the Team scores to be calculated. GBR
won Gold with a new Paralympic record; a Team score of 468.817. Germany
scooped Silver with 440.970 but it was the calculation of Bronze that caused a
number of re-counts to double, triple check; Ireland 428.313, Netherlands
428.253 – how close is that!!
This is a quite incredible achievement by
the GBR Team; they remain undefeated as a Team since equestrian was admitted to
the Paralympic Games in 1996. The Team score is calculated from the three
best scores but any combination of three of the riders from the four that make
up the Team would still have won us Gold. Outstanding.
In Beijing we
won 10 medals at the Paralympics with 5 Gold and 5 Silver. We had 7
athletes in Hong Kong, we have 5 in London. So far we are on 3 Gold and 3
Silver; a good 4 days at the office but we will all be focused on the next two
days with the Freestyle Tests (dressage to music) starting tomorrow. As
the scores show, it is not easy to win medals at the Paralympic Games! The quality of riding and quality of horses is so much improved from when we
last saw a full range of countries in 2010.
There are
many familiar faces here from the Olympic Games; some with very different
jobs.  Alec Lochore (Olympic Eventing Competition Manager) is now a
tractor driver!
Posted by
www.bef.co.uk
at
Sunday, September 02, 2012
No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Saturday, 1 September 2012
Will updates us during the first medal day
Armageddon is
nigh. Today, a squirrel marched up the Mixed Zone while people (I was
one) were being interviewed. That is wrong on so many fronts that I had
to allow myself an extra large and rather yummy lunch in the IPC / FEI Friends
& Family Lounge.
Yes, through dealings that I will not enlarge on
here (but essentially the generosity of ParalympicsGB) I have access to the
Lounge were the Great & the Good partake in social exchanges. This is
located in the Queen’s House which is the architectural gem that forms the
backdrop to the glorious Field of Play that is the Greenwich Venue.
Since I last
spouted forth, the GBR equestrian team have continued to perform. The
second day of competition saw GBR open up a satisfying lead in the Team
competition with Sophie Wells and Sophie Christiansen both winning their
respective Grades and Deb Criddle just getting pipped in to second by the
Germans. These “Team” tests only count towards the Team medal so what is
vital is a “clear round” that sets the tone for things to come. The
Sophie’s scores of 83.647 (Sophie C) and 75.906 (Sophie W) certainly set the
tone for what we hope will come!
Today started
with a peel of thunder; thunderous applause as Natasha Baker nailed a
Paralympics record of 76.857% in the Individual Grade II test. I must
admit I thought ...in the bag; she will be on top of the Podium; but as if to
demonstrate, on the Field of Play, what I have been saying for some months, the
standards in para-equestrian dressage are rocketing. Britta Napel (GER)
76.048% and Angelika Trabert (GER) 76.000%. I am now off to the Doctors for
an ECG cos that was too close for comfort!! Go go Natasha Baker; London
2012 hero.
Lee Pearson
in the Grade Ib Individual competition next (following a break for the
aforementioned lunch). Lee of course is part of the Team and the
Individual Test counts towards the Team score; I know Individual for the Team a
bit backside about face! Lee had his work cut out and called on all of
his considerable talent and experience to land an excellent score of
75.391%.  We all now wait to see how the reminder of the riders go. Perhaps the biggest threat is Pepo Puch (AUT) who was only just behind Lee in
the Team Test.
Note to Medal
Presenters; turn your mobile phone off when you are presenting medals, as I am
a child at heart and it must be distracting to have your phone vibrating in
your pocket.......mustn’t it Mr McEwen?
Posted by
www.bef.co.uk
at
Saturday, September 01, 2012
No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Friday, 31 August 2012
The Brits take to the arena
I hope you
all stayed up to hear the head Orator of the GBR Para-Equestrian Dressage Team,
David Hunter, take the Oath on behalf of coaches and Team staff.  David’s
fame in Norfolk is now assured through the pages of the Norfolk Evening News
although the aforementioned media outlet did report that he took the Oath on
behalf of the Judges; which seeing we are a sport that relies on the clear eyes
and straight brains of Judges....is kinda interesting!
Only David and Lee
Pearson / Daniel Kinson (Lee’s Carer) attended the Opening Ceremony and we held
a buffet in the hotel for the staff and some owners to watch the Ceremony –
there was much whooping and cheering when the Orator took the stage, dressed in
a manner that will have brought pride to his former Officer Cavalry colleagues.
The Green
light was pushed for competition to begin at Greenwich. First on the
Piste for GBR; a first time Paralympian but reigning European Grade II
Champions – what can I say – wow.  We could not have asked for a
better start; 76.095%, some 3.5% ahead of her closest rival.  Natasha is
not in the Team so this score did not count towards the Team score but the
perfect way for Natasha to say “Cabral & I have arrived; TAKE NOTE”.
The weather
continued to laugh in the face of the GBR Team (many a RH Mears Riding Jacket
has had to hold out against attack from above). As Lee Pearson warmed up
the skies darkened, the wind became stronger and the temperature dropped. Autumn arrived accompanied by a round of applause as Lee entered the
arena. Another winning test was delivered although the rain did get in to
the sat nav at one point and caused a temporary glitch.  A great start for
the Team with a score of 74.682%. Pepo Puch (who many will remember from
his eventing days) was snapping at Lee’s heals on 73.636%.
Autumn has
definitely arrived – the workload is building as attention turns to Rule
revisions and most importantly the preparation and delivery to UK Sport of the
“Rio 2016 Plan”. I am sure all involved with Team GB at the
Olympics and ParalympicsGB at the Paralympics will readily acknowledge the
value of the support we get from UK Sport; the funding (Lottery / Exchequer) is
epicentral to the success that was delivered during the Olympics and I hope
will be delivered during the Paralympics. Making sure the Plan (and hence
the funding bid) is as detailed and understandable as possible will be my core
Mission through to early October. It is then that I will be able to relax
a little and have a real think about my future.
Posted by
www.bef.co.uk
at
Friday, August 31, 2012
1 comment:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels:
Will's Blog
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
Search by Blogger
Will's Blog
(53)
flash quotes
(49)
Equestrian Team GBR
www.bef.co.uk
The British Equestrian Federation is the recognised governing body of horse sports in the UK. Through its eighteen members, it represents and works to promote the interests of over 4.2 million riders, vaulters and carriage drivers in Britain.
View my complete profile
Visit: Other thoughts from Equestrian Team GBR
Visit: Other thoughts from Equestrian Team GBR
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(55)
▼
September
(4)
All done and dusted; home at last
A day of two halves
The girls take to the floor......
Will updates us during the first medal day
►
August
(25)
►
July
(26)
►
2011
(51)
►
September
(11)
►
August
(24)
►
July
(16)
The World Class Programme is supported by UK Sport
Followers
Search this Blog
Equestrian Team GBR's Facebook Wall
Loading...
Equestrian Team GBR
Loading...
British Dressage I NEWS
Loading...
British Eventing | NEWS
Loading...
British Showjumping I NEWS
Loading...
EquestrianTeamGBR. Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
