Home - BNTVA
0208 144 3080
info@bntva.com
0 Items
Newsdesk
Nuclear News
Trustees
In Memoriam
Magazine
Shop
Contact Us
Links
Legal
Select Page
Welcome to the BNTVA
The British Nuclear Test Veterans Association (BNTVA) is the premier UK charity representing all people who have worked with or alongside radioactive material for the benefit of this nation. Formed initially to campaign for recognition and restitution of our Servicemen who participated in the British Nuclear Tests the organisation has evolved over the years to share it’s knowledge and heritage with people from all walks of life.
The British Nuclear Testing Programme ran between 1952 and 1967, it was the largest Tri-Service operation since the D-Day landings. Over 20,000 servicemen participated in the Weapons Tests. The development of these superweapons bought the United Kingdoms place at the world superpower table.
BNTVA Aims
Education
We are committed to sharing the legacy of our nuclear community with the wider public, through Illustrated Presentations, Documentaries and Publishing Research.
Our story is presented in schools and colleges, at meetings of interested groups (Probus and Rotary), Internationally through the Nuclear Survivor Community and Academia.
Research
We are currently conducting and funding research into all aspects of the Nuclear Community experience covering Genetics, Mental Health, Physical Health and Sociological Experience.
This research drives our Educational aim reducing uncertainty and anguish within the Nuclear Community, Informing wider society to identify areas where help and policy can be developed to enhance wellbeing and reduce suffering.
The lessons of the Nuclear Community are not just applicable to that community they have impact across any group of people who may have suffered genetic damage from nuclear or chemical contaminant either directly or through inheritance.
Support
The education and research we have traditionally fostered has supported the Nuclear Community in developing its knowledge base.
With the introduction of the Aged Veterans Fund the BNTVA has been able to create the Nuclear Community Charity Fund which is delivering a wide portfolio of projects benefiting our Nuclear Community not least the Care & Wellbeing Fund which provides goods and services to community members to ease suffering and increase wellbeing.
BNTVA
Campaign Magazine
If you want to get your story or article in the next issue of Campaign, the copy deadline is the 30th of September 2016.
View the Latest Magazine
To submit your story email editor@bntva.com
National Atomic Veterans Awareness Day (NAVAD)
3rd October
Tweets by BNTVA
Sign up for our free NewsDesk mail service
Email Address
First Name
Last Name
Submit
Why not become a part of the BNTVA today
From as little as £20 a year you can help the charity working for the benefit of all our Atomic Veterans and their families.
Remember the first year is FREE – Join in 2016 and don’t pay until May 2017!
Join Now
facebook
Twitter
flikr
BNTVA
The BNTVA is the premier UK charity representing all people who have worked with or alongside radioactive material for the benefit of this nation. Our Primary aims are Education, Research and Support.
BNTVA
PO Box 8244
Castle Donington
Derby
DE74 2BY
Telephone 0208 144 3080
Email info@bntva.com
The BNTVA is a Registered Charity 1131134 (England & Wales)
Facebook
Twitter
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
This site uses cookies:
Find out more.OK
