CGD Society - Home Page
Jeans for Genes Day
Become a member
Toggle navigation
Become a member
About
The CGD Society
What is CGD?
Our services
FAQs
Newsroom
Contact us
Information and Support
Affected children and adults
X-linked CGD carrier females
Medical professionals
Treatments
Bone marrow transplantation
Gene therapy
Research
Get Involved
Donate
Submit
#CGDsociety
Twitter
Facebook
The 2015 CGD Society Family Conference took place in October. Downloadable presentations from the event are now available in the Affected Children and Adults section of our website.
Our charity is reliant on fundraising. Please click here to donate.
Our Clinical Nurse Specialist is able to answer questions about both children and adults affected by CGD.
In winter 2015, we will be launching a new round of grant funding for research.
Affected children and adults
For those who have recently received a diagnosis; for parents of children, and adults living with CGD
Find out more
Medical professionals
For specialist information on CGD, resources and diagnostic tools for medical professionals
Find out more
Bone marrow transplantation
For those who have recently received a diagnosis; for parents of children, and adults living with CGD
Find out more
X-linked CGD carrier females
For women and their daughters who are known to carry X-linked CGD
Find out more
Research in to CGD
Find out about the research we fund and the results that have been achieved through our support
Find out more
Fundraising
We need your support to fundraise whether it's through running, holding your own event or organising a Jeans for Genes Day
Find out more
Supported by
Genetic Disorders UK
Accessibility
Terms of use
Cookie policy
Privacy statement
Contact us
IMPORTANT NOTE: The information contained on this website is intended only as a guideline, not as a substitute for medical advice. Always consult your doctor if you or your child has any CGD symptoms or concerns.
© 2015 The Chronic Granulomatous Disorder Society is a charitable company limited by guarantee and registered in England (registered charity number 1143049 and registered company number 07607593). The registered address is Genetic Disorders UK, 199A Victoria Street, London SW1E 5NE.
Member of AMRC
Share
Share this on Facebook
Tweet this
Welcome to the CGD Society
Before leaving our website today, please take a few minutes to register as a member of the CGD Society. It is absolutely free! The more member families we support throughout the world who are affected by chronic granulomatous disorder, the better chance we have of securing funds to develop and maintain this website, and provide you with the latest information on the management of CGD, treatments and research towards a cure.
» Yes, I would like to become a member
» No, please do not show me this message again
