Our Views on various topics | The Church of England
Search website
Clergy & Office-holders
More C of E Sites
A Christian presence in every community
Home
Contact Us
Document Library
Vacancies
Site Help
Text OnlyAAA
About Us
Our Faith
Weddings, Baptisms & Funerals
Prayer & Worship
Education and National Society
Views
Renewal & Reform
Media Centre
Home >
Views
Marriage, Family and Sexuality Issues
International Affairs
Home and Community Affairs
Environment and Rural Affairs
The Church in Parliament
Medical Ethics & Health & Social Care Policy
Ethical Investment
Church issues
Views
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
The Church of England encourages people to
use scripture, tradition and reason to come to a considered view on
many subjects. Sometimes, after discussion and debate in the
General Synod and elsewhere, national policies are agreed or, after
consideration in councils, opinions are
submitted.
National policies include Canon Law and the
Measures and motions passed by the General Synod (the Church's
parliament): Measures become part of the law of the land on Royal
Assent. Dioceses and Parishes also set appropriate local
policies.
Opinions on a variety of subjects are those
given in submissions to Government inquiries, consultations and
such that have been considered by the councils and committees of
the Archbishops' Council.
Spotlight onHuman Rights and Religious Freedom
Religious freedom is a fundamental human right. Religious
freedom benefits everyone - it creates conditions for peace,
democratisation, development and other human rights. Unfortunately
there are increasing instances in several parts of the world where
violations of this most basic human right occur.
Read more Marriage, Family and Sexuality Issues
The Church is committed to working with and supporting the
diversity of Britain's households in every community and at
national level
Read more International Affairs
Human suffering, violence and injustice effect people across the
world. The Church works for the good of all by promoting peace,
justice and solidarity. It also plays an active role in the life of
the European Union, EU.
Read more Home and Community Affairs
The Church engages in Home Affairs policy (criminal justice,
mental health and other social issues) and has a presence in every
town and city working for the good of community and urban life; it
is committed to working with and promoting people of all ethnic
backgrounds.
Read more Environment and Rural Affairs
Shrinking the Footprint is the Church of England's national
environmental campaign. The C of E's national rural work is based
at the ecumenical Arthur Rank Centre (ARC), in Warwickshire.
Read more The Church in Parliament
The Church of England, as the established church, is represented
in Parliament in several ways; through the Lords, the Commons, the
Ecclesiastical Committee and the Anglican Chaplain to the
Speaker.
Read more Medical Ethics & Health & Social Care Policy
The Church of England engages with contemporary ethical debates
in science, medicine and technology
Read more Ethical Investment
Church of England ethical investment restrictions apply to
companies involved in military products and services, pornography,
alcoholic drinks, gambling, tobacco, human embryonic cloning
and weekly collected home credit.
Read more Church issues
Read more
E-News Sign Up
Sign-up for email news updates
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Title
Tell us more about yourself
ClergyParish Mag/Website editorJust interested
Preferred format
HTML
Text
Mobile
© Archbishops' Council2017:
Church Commissioners
Pensions Board
General Synod
Dioceses
Web Design by Zebedee Creations
contact us
site map
terms & conditions
links
privacy
accessibility
cookie policy
More Church of England Sites
Your Church Wedding
Whether you're just dreaming of a church wedding, or well into the planning already, your church wants to help and support you.
Churchcare
A comprehensive resource for anyone involved in the running of a church, with a wide range of practical advice and tips. Includes shrinking the footprint.
Call Waiting
Encouraging gifted and committed young men and women, from all backgrounds, to consider whether God is calling them into ordained ministry.
Going for Growth
A spiritual challenge for every child and young person to have a life-enhancing encounter with the Christian faith.
Worship Workshop
WorshipWorkshop offers Church schools a way of creating engaging collective worship.
Crockford's Clerical Directory
Crockford's Clerical Directory, contains biographies of over 27,000 Anglican clergy, details of English, Welsh and Irish benefices and churches and more
Church of England in WW1
Resources, stories and events to commemorate the anniversary of the First World War
Church Legacy
Church Legacy’ provides information for individuals, solicitors and parishes on how gifts in wills can make a lasting difference to your local church
Church House Publishing
The Archbishops' Council publishes a range of liturgy, reference and other resources under the CHP imprint.
Parish Resources
We support you in your stewardship, providing online guidance & resources on; finance, gift aid, preaching, fundraising & administration.
Communications Training
High quality media, presentation and social media training for the CofE
and related charities. Find out more about our current courses.
Lambeth Palace Library
The historic library of the Archbishops of Canterbury.
Parish Buying
Offering national contracts and buying tips to help the Church buy and save together.
Resourcing Christian Community Action
Information on best practice in providing Christian care in local communities
Pilgrim Course
A course for the Christian Journey - where people can explore the Christian faith together and see how it can be lived out each day.
Church Growth Research and Development
Church of England's work on church growth research and development that aims to help the Church allocate its resources effectively to facilitate its mission and growth
Presence and Engagement
The Church of England’s national programme equipping Christians for mission and ministry in the wonderful diversity of our multi faith society
To Your Credit
Information and resources to help churches and individuals act for a fairer financial system, including support for credit unions.
