Welcome to CVSA UK
Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome Association UK
Navigation
Home
What is CVS?
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
Research
Adult CVS
Membership/CVSA
Contacts
Experiences
Resources
Purchase
Thanks
Family Day
Survey
Advertisment
Tweets by @CVSAUK
Welcome to CVSA UK
This jQuery slider was created with the free EasyRotator software from DWUser.com.
Use WordPress? The free EasyRotator for WordPress plugin lets you create beautiful WordPress sliders in seconds.
OK
Rotator powered by EasyRotator, a free and easy jQuery slider builder from DWUser.com.
Please enable JavaScript to view.
We are a registered charity providing information and support to sufferers of
Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome and their families.
Please remember to update us if your email address changes.
Family Day 2017
Saturday 11th November
Put it in the diary now
Awareness Day March 5th
Lucy Maven, an adult CVS sufferer told her story to the local press.
She was interviewed on Radio Tees
Listen here it starts at 38 minutes
Gary Philipson Show 4/03/17
Please do whatever you can to raise awarenss of CVS
In the Birmingham Area?
Support CVS with Dantanas Hair Salon
News
An Article on CVS In the Daily Record
http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/real-life/mum-who-vomits-up-15-9868205
Listen to Dr Sonny Chong on Radio 4
Inside Health
Tuesday 4th October 9pm
or on catch up
Please consider sending your story and sharing it in our next Newsletter. We really appreciate your input and our members find hearing others experiences very helpful.
AWARENESS DAY March 5th
Awareness Day page
Thank you to everyone who contributed to last year's Awareness day.
We hope all the CVS societies and supporters around the world had a great day and that we have started something that can only grow and grow and help more and more people.
Have you got your T shirt yet?
Fruit of the Loom brand, heavy cotton. Order from the Awareness page
Organising an event? We now have a MyDonate page where you can collect funds online, link below - its simple to set up and all money raised comes to the charity- no fees applied.
The UK now has the lowest public spending on scientific research of any G8 country
This is really bad news not just for medical research but every aspect of our economy. Britain has always had a strong science base and in many fields we have led the world. We are world leaders in many fields of research, producing over 10% of global scientific output with only 1% of the global population. It's a really shortsighted move to lose that leadership position. Please support the campaign by
Science is Vital
Buy Trolley Coins/Keyrings Ribbons and Wristbands to support CVSA
T-shirts can be ordered now! In Stock
see our
Awareness Day page
New: CVSA eBook available on the Apple iBook store for Mac, iPad and iPhone- free
CVS Voices
Take a look at our new video
This dangerous and ill considered bill has been defeated- for now. It would have legitimised pseudoscientific and purely "quack" treatments. This is good news for everyone but we need to be vigilant and promote evidence based treatments.
Seen a health claim that's too good to be true? Then Ask for Evidence
Text Donations to CVSA UK
Just text CVSA10 £XX where X is an amount £2, £5 or £10 to 70070
All medical information on this site has been reviewed by our Medical advisors,
shown below, people's individual stories on our Experiences pages are their own views and
do not constitute medical advice.
Our site contains advertising links that help support the
charity. Neither the trustees nor any of our medical advsiers benefit in anyway from these
links and have no commercial links to our advertisers.
Dr Sonny Chong Consultant Paediatrician
Queen Mary’s Hospital, Carshalton, Surrey
Keith J Lindley BSc (Hons) PhD MB MRCP(UK) MRCPCH
UCL Institute of Child Health, Great Ormond Street Hospital
Dr Ishaq Abu-Arafeh,
Consultant in Paediatrics and Paediatric Neurology Forth Valley Royal Hospital and the
Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow
Dr Alberto Ravelli
Pediatric gastroenterologist and hepatologist Brescia University, Italy
Dr Simon Moodie
Consultant Gastroeneterologist
Epsom & St Helier NHS Trust Surrey
Dr Krishnappa Venkatesh
Consultant Paediatric Gastroenterologist
Alder Hey Children's Hospital Liverpool
Dr Maureen Lawson
Consultant Paediatric Gastroenterologist
Great Northern Children's Hospital Newcastle
About CVSA
The information on this site is provided to help you understand CVS and support sufferers
but is not intended to replace any advice from your own health care professional.
Confidentiality
We do not sell or pass on any personal information you may provide us if you contact us to
any 3rd party. We maintain a database of membership, members can request paper records are
kept and opt out of the database entry.
About CVSA
We are an all volunteer organisation, a registered charity with all funding being provided
via the sponsored links on our purchase pages, membership fees and by voluntary donations.
Advertising
Our editorial content is not influenced by the funding sources. Our website hosts
sponsored ads and links from which the charity earns a small income, 100% of this income
is spent on supporting the charities aims. We don't accept advertising from any
adult-orientated material or from advertisers promoting any "treatments" for CVS.
Our website hosts advertising banners only. Advertisement is distinguished by the
word ‘Advertisement’
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Search only trustworthy HONcode health websites:
Email info@cvsa.org.uk Page updated:
4-mar-17
Helpline 0151 342 1660
Charity Number 1045723
