Depression Alliance | Mind, the mental health charity - help for mental health problems
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Talk to us
I need urgent help
Donate
Information & support
About us
News & campaigns
Get Involved
Workplace
Shop
A-Z Mental health
Types of mental health problems
Drugs and treatments
Helping someone else
Legal rights
Tips for everyday living
Guides to support and services
Gwybodaeth iechyd meddwl Gymraeg
Helplines
Elefriends, our online community
Find your local Mind
Your stories
I need urgent help
What we do
Our strategy
Local Minds
Our impact
How we raise and spend our money
Supporter Promise
Our achievements
Our policy work
Celebrity support
Working for us
Our information
Contact us
Mind Cymru
Our equality improvement work
News
Campaigns
Mind Cymru campaigns
Mind Media Awards
Media office
Legal news
Join our membership
Donate now
Run for Mind
Become a campaigner
Giving to Mind
Fundraise for us
Support your Mind shop
Volunteering & participating
Trek, cycle, swim or skydive
Resource centre
World Mental Health Day
Tough Mudder
Mental health at work
Workplace Wellbeing Index
Training & Consultancy
Corporate Partnerships
Workplace Wellbeing Wales
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message. If not, please read more about your options.
Menu
Information & support
About us
News & campaigns
Get Involved
Workplace
Shop
Talk to us
I need urgent help
Donate
Home
About us
What we do
Depression Alliance
Depression Alliance
Depression Alliance merged with Mind on Monday 1 August 2016.
For almost 40 years, Depression Alliance has been bringing people together to end the loneliness and isolation that can come with depression.
Raising awareness and campaigning to improve attitudes towards depression has been central to Depression Alliance’s work.
We are continuing to deliver services formerly provided by Depression Alliance, including:
Friends in Need (the online community and its wellbeing network)
and 60 Depression Alliance self-help groups.
Together, we won’t give up until everyone with depression gets the support they need and the respect they deserve.
Why did Depression Alliance merge with Mind?
Depression Alliance’s ambition was to reach everyone affected by depression. As a small national charity, Depression Alliance decided it couldn’t achieve this alone.
To continue delivering its wellbeing network, its self-help groups and its online community, Depression Alliance merged with Mind.
Mind and Depression Alliance have a lot in common. We both want to:
support everyone with depression,
give people with depression a voice to raise awareness,
and bring people with experience of depression together to support each other.
Friends in Need
Friends in Need was created by Depression Alliance. It is a supportive space for everyone living with depression. If you have depression, you can use it to connect with others online or in your local area.
Nationally, Mind is continuing to deliver the Friends in Need online community.
Friends in Need wellbeing network services are now being delivered by seven of our local Minds, and services will continue to be delivered as usual.
Find out more about Friends in Need and join today: friendsinneed.co.uk
Friends in Need is a place you can be yourself without fear you're being judged or told how you should act when you're depressed.
Self-help groups
There are 60 Depression Alliance self-help groups operating across England - these are run by dedicated volunteers.
The groups will continue as usual with support from Mind at a national level. Our local Minds will support these services in the same way that independent groups across England and Wales are already supported to deliver peer support through the Side by Side programme.
Find a self-help group today.
Questions about the merger?
If you have any questions, please email us at supporterservices@mind.org.uk or call us on 020 8215 2243.
Mental Health A-Z
Information and advice on a huge range of mental health topics
> Read our A-Z
Training
Helping you to better understand and support people with mental health problems
> Find out more
Special offers
Check out our promotional offers on print and digital booklets, for a limited time only
> Visit our shop today
Find us on Facebook
and Twitter
More Information
Accessibility
Legal info
Contact us
Media office
Jobs
© 2013 Mind We're a registered charity in England (no. 219830) and a registered company (no. 424348) in England and Wales.
