Diabetes Trials Unit : Home page
Home
About Us
OUBST
Diabetes
Multicentre Trials
Translational Trials
Software
Publications
Home
About Us
OUBST
Diabetes
Multicentre Trials
Translational Trials
Software
Publications
About USAbout US
About the DTU News Staff Alumni Contact/Find us Job opportunities
OUBSTOUBST
About the OUBST News OUBST staff Contact/Find us
DiabetesDiabetes
About diabetes Our research Clinical research Get involved FAQ
Multicentre TrialsMulticentre Trials
Overview 4-T ACE ADOPT AFORRD DREAM EDIT EXSCEL FHS GLINT ISAT LDS NAVIGATOR TECOS UKPDS
Translational TrialsTranslational Trials
Overview News Who we are What we do Our research Contact us Conference abstracts Publications Webcasts
SoftwareSoftware
Overview HOMA Calculator UKPDS Outcomes Model UKPDS Risk Engine
PublicationsPublications
Publications Conference abstracts Slidesets Webcasts
Welcome to the Diabetes Trials Unit
The Diabetes Trials Unit (DTU) is a fully registered UKCRC Clinical Trials Unit (#14),
specialising in performing national and multinational clinical trials related to diabetes, and a member of the Medical Sciences Division Clinical Trials Sub-Committee.
[More about the DTU]
Get Involved
To find out more about studies taking place see our multicentre or Oxford based Trials
To hear more about what it is like to take part in a diabetes research study watch our video
If you would like to take part in one of our studies or find out more, please complete our enquiry form.
Latest News
Let's Defeat Diabetes
12-Nov-2016
Every day clinicians and scientists at the Boris Family Clinic help people deal with their diabetes and look for new solutions to this common disease. Now they are using a novel approach: a music video....
[Read more...]
Magdalen Tower set to turn blue for World Diabetes Day
11-Nov-2016
Clinicians and researchers are preparing to light Oxford's Magdalen Tower blue to mark World Diabetes Day - and have invited patients and visitors to then learn more at an open day about the condition at the Churchill Hospital.
The tower at Magdalen College in High Street will follow in the footsteps of other landmarks including Elizabeth Tower (known informally as Big Ben) and Sydney Opera House by turning blue between 4....
[Read more...]
DTU Research Fellow presents new findings at the 2016 EASD in Munich
23-Sep-2016
Few data are available on the potential benefits that achieving different HbA1c targets might deliver. Dr Samiul Mostafa, a Diabetes Trials Unit academic clinical lecturer, used the UKPDS Outcomes Model to estimate 10-year risks for micro- and macrovascular type 2 diabetes complications when targeting HbA1c levels between 10% and 6%, to quantify the likely incremental benefits....
[Read more...]
[More news]
Diabetes Trials Unit, OCDEM Building, Churchill Hospital, Old Road, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7LJ
Tel: +44 (0)1865 857240     Fax: +44 (0)1865 857241     Email: dtu@dtu.ox.ac.uk
Home | Intranet | Freedom of Information | Privacy Policy | Copyright | Accessibility | OCDEM | RDM | Oxford University
