Home | Dyslexia Action
Jump to navigation
0300 303 8840
Read aloud
Donate
Contact us
Events
Media
Find your local Learning Centre
Search form
Search
Donate
0300 303 8840
Search form
Search
What is dyslexia?About dyslexia
What are the signs of dyslexia?
How is dyslexia diagnosed?
How does dyslexia affect people?
Personal stories
Facts and figures about dyslexia
Co-occurring difficulties
News and views
Reports and publications
Glossary
Useful links
Get helpFree advice
Assessment and screening
Tuition
Courses
Useful learning tools
Assistive technologies
Support at school
Support while at college and university
Support at work or when seeking work
Support groups
Encouraging reading
For employersWhy is it important that you understand dyslexia?
Legal requirements of employers
Employer training
How can you support your employees?
Employer resources
For educatorsShort courses for Teachers and Assistants
Awards for Teachers and Assistants
Courses for FE and HE specialists
Training to become a Specialist Teacher
Training to become a Specialist Assessor
Courses for Qualified SpLD professionals
Professional Membership – The Dyslexia Guild
Educator tools and resources
Services for education providers
Direct support for pupils
Get involvedWhere your money goes
Donate
Go the distance for dyslexia
Take part in an event
Fundraise for us
Donate through your salary
Leave a gift in your Will
Donate in memory
Give through your company
Philanthropy and charitable trusts
Volunteer
About usFind us
Contact us
What we do
How we work with others
Our supporters
Our ambassadors
Our trustees
Our team
Our plans, accounts and impact reports
Join us
Sign up to our newsletter
Films about dyslexia
Shop
Contact us
Events
Media
Find your local Learning Centre
Read aloud AA
Shop
We are a national charity with 40 years’ experience in providing support with literacy and numeracy, dyslexia and other specific learning difficulties.
Donate
Dyslexia Action We provide support, assessments and tuition through our national Learning Centres, through online distance learning and in schools across the country, alongside supporting educators and employers through the provision of resources and training. We also undertake research and campaigning to improve the lives of those affected by dyslexia.
Help & Support
We offer assessments and screenings, tuition and short courses, as well as free advice sessions and useful information to ensure you get the right help and support.
Read More
Our Centres
Our network of Learning Centres, based around Great Britain, offer direct support to children, young people and adults as well as parents, teachers and employers.
Read more
Training
Our training courses offer educators, employers and parents the knowledge they need to better support people with literacy and numeracy difficulties, dyslexia and other specific learning difficulties.
Read more
Annual Conference
Wednesday 28 June 2017, London
Go the distance for dyslexia
Find out how you can ‘Go the distance for dyslexia’ and help us to provide more life-changing support to those affected by dyslexia.
Did you know?
With one in 10 of the population estimated to have dyslexia, more than 6.3 million people in the UK are potentially affected by dyslexia.
Read more
1 in 5 children leave primary school with below the national expected levels in all of reading, writing and mathematics levels.
Read more
Dyslexia is a specific learning difficulty that primarily affects the ability to learn to read and spell. It often runs in families and stems from a difficulty in processing the sounds in words.
Read more
Dyslexia can make some things harder to learn. But, almost always, those barriers to learning can be overcome, especially with the right kind of help and support.
Read more
Latest News
February Book blog – 10 short story collections
10 short story collections, because sometimes the best stories are the ones which are quickest to read!
Dyslexia Action appoints Interim Chief Executive
Dyslexia Action is pleased to announce the appointment of a new Interim Chief Executive, Matthew Simkins.
Local independent authors share their gift of words through fundraising support for those with dyslexia
Local independent authors share their gift of words through fundraising support for those with dyslexia
Dyslexia Action's Ambassador Maria Farrer launches new book
Information
Login
E-Learning Moodle access
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Complaints procedure
HealthUnlocked LinkedIn Facebook Twitter YouTube
Sign up to our newsletter
Registered Office: Dyslexia Action House, 10 High Street, Egham, Surrey TW20 9EA. © Dyslexia Institute Limited 2005-2017. Dyslexia Action is the working name for Dyslexia Institute Limited, a charity registered in England and Wales (No. 268502) and Scotland (No. SC039177) and registered in England and Wales as company (No. 01179975).
