FOOD CAN MAKE YOU ILL - Food Can Make You Ill: Your Complete Guide to Food Intolerance and Food Allergy
Food Can Make You Ill - - - Your Complete Guide to Food Intolerance
FOOD CAN MAKE YOU ILL
Home
Food Intolerance
Food and You - the key facts
Questionnaire - Food Intolerance
Symptoms - Food Intolerance
Evidence - Food Intolerance
Frequently Asked Questions - Food Intolerance
Getting Well
Library
Books
Change Your Diet and Change Your Life
Six Week Food Diary
Salicylate Handbook
Salicylate Sensitivity
Salicylate - An Introduction
Identified Symptoms - Salicylate Sensitivity
Salicylate in Food
Testing for a Salicylate Sensitivity
Non Food Problems - Salicylate Sensitivity
Questions and Answers - Salicylate Sensitivity
About
Contact
Welcome
Healthy Eating is only healthy if it works for you and YOU are unique.
Please Read Me
The section on Food Intolerance is the best place to start and is essential reading for the first time visitor. Try the questionnaire, read about the symptoms, view the evidence, and find out how to get well using the 'seven step plan'.
The Library has within it a collection of articles 							and research updates on the relationship between food and illness. Subjects covered include individual foods, food additives, and food chemicals such as 							salicylate and tyramine.
You can find out more about the companion book to this site, Change Your Diet and Change Your Life, the Six Week Food Diary, and the Salicylate Handbook, in the Books section.
If you are specifically looking for information on salicylate intolerance / sensitivity then head straight for the section on Salicylate Sensitivity.
Information on the history of the site (on line since 2000) and its author, Sharla Race, can be found in the about section.
Copyright (c) 2000 to 2017 Sharla Race. All rights reserved.
Food Intolerance... Food Allergy...  Food Allergies... Salicylate Sensitivity... Food Chemicals... Food Additives... Food 		Sensitivity... Salicylate Intolerance
✕
