Food Reactions: About Food Intolerance, Allergy & Adverse Reactions
Homepage
Products
Forum
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Review Cart
Categories
Lactose & Food Intolerance
>>> Lactose
Intolerance
Milk & Food Allergy
>>> Milk Allergy
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Baby Colic
Coeliac Disease
Carbohydrates Intolerance
Alcohol Reactions
Fructose Intolerance
Food Additives
Products
Digestive Enzymes
Digestion Aid
Probiotics
Children's Health
Medical News
News Widgets & TickersPowered by BlastCasta
Discount Code:
Our prices are already reduced but visit any of the products pages for a discount code to save more. FREE SHIPPING to all orders over £35.00 to UK. International shipping is only at cost price.
Food & Lactose Intolerance
More than half of the world population is lactose intolerant!
Food intolerance is the inability to completely break down food
resulting in cramps, bloating, wind, diarrhoea etc. Lactose Intolerance (milk) is the most common form and affects half the world population.
Food Allergy
is not Lactose Intolerance. A guide is provided. Read More  »»
Food & Milk Allergy
Food allergy is the subject most talked about especially in children.
Food allergy is caused when the immune system
mistakenly responds to food proteins
thinking they are harmful substances. Symptoms include vomiting, itching, rash, and hives. Allergies in children are very common, but
treatment with
digestive enzymes may prove very
helpful. Read More  »»
Are you Coeliac or simply Wheat Sensitive?
1 in 1000 are coeliac but 20% are simply sensitive. How do you find out?
In Coeliac Disease, gluten causes
damage to the small intestines, however, more people
are
wheat sensitive. This
shows negative in blood tests. Read how to diagnose and avoid false negative
screening results and discover Glutenzyme, a digestive enzyme
to help avoid associated symptoms. Read More  »»
A Treatment for Baby Colic?
50% of babies' colic is caused by lactase deficiency.
Treating it is simple.
Baby colic is very distressing to both the baby and the parents. However,
studies conclude that
half the babies suffer
due to lactase deficiency. This is
easily treated by neutralising milk with lactase enzyme. Distressed parents have hailed the drops
as 'A Godsend' and 'Miraculous'. Read More  »»
IBS or Simply Food Intolerance?
50% of people diagnosed with IBS are actually Lactose Intolerant.
Medical studies confirmed
50% of patients diagnosed with Irritable Bowel Syndrome may in fact be Lactose Intolerant. Omitting dairy products from their diet, or treating it with enzymes has helped them start a new life. Since IBS symptoms are similar to LI, diagnosis can be confusing.
Read More  »»
Find out more about:
Other topics and articles to read .
Carbohydrate Intolerance - obesity may be related
The inability to break down starch and other sugars leads to bloating, wind, cramps, diarrhoea, etc. Now there is evidence that obesity may be related to carbohydrate intolerance. There is some good news with the help of
digestive enzymes. Read More  »»
Food Additives,
& E Numbers - some banned in countries, in others not!
The Romans used them, they come in 'numbers' or in weird names. Some are healthy but others are 'bad' despite being approved for consumption and depending where you live. Watch out for the ones to avoid and the others not to worry about. Read More »»
Fructose Intolerance vs Fructose Malabsorption
Fructose Intolerance is a rare
genetical disorder and leads to severe symptoms and may prove dangerous. Read More  »»
Fructose Malabsorption has symptoms similar to Lactose Intolerance and avoidance of fruits helps. Read More  »»
Alcohol Allergy & Intolerance
Once ingested, alcohol is quickly broken down by enzymes produced in the liver. Otherwise it is a toxin and the body will react.
Many people of oriental origin lack this enzyme and this explains why they turn red when drinking alcohol. So what is the cure?
Read More  »»
Top of Page
Site Search
News & Discounts
Subscribe to the newsletter where from time to time you receive updates and discount vouchers.
Subscribe Now  »»
Popular Products
Glutenzyme
Glutenzyme is proving to be the saviour of persons with gluten intolerance.
Spectrumzyme
Popular product which helps treat sufferers of food intolerance in general, including gluten / wheat intolerance.
Prolactazyme Plus
Undoubtedly the no. 1 product for lactose intolerance and milk allergy.
Lactase Enzyme Liquid
Just a few drops to produce lactose free milk and no. 1 solution for
baby colic.
Healthy Kids
See the range of healthy products for babies and kids.
TravelGuard®
An innovative product ideal for travellers to help forbetter digestion.
Probiotics & live bacteria
Medical research concluded that Probiotics help boost the immune system.
Related Quick Links
Guide to Symptoms
Food Intolerance vs Allergy
List of Hidden Milk
Watch out for unwanted milk products in food & medicines
Milk Alternatives & Substitutes
For those who prefer a milk free diet or milk free cooking
Calcium Requirements
Recommended
daily calcium intake
by age and sex
Enzymes to the Rescue
A medical review describing how enzymes
treat food allergy
Breaking down
Gluten
An Enzyme
to help gluten intolerance become tolerant
Probiotics -
gimmicks?
The truth behind probiotics and the life healthy bacteria
The Digestive System Describes what involves in the digestion of food.
©  2010 All Rights Reserved
©  Copyright • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use • Disclaimer
