Goldenhar UK | Supporting families throughout the U.K. who face the day to day challenges of supporting relatives with Goldenhar Syndrome, Hemifacial Microsomia and Microtia.
Donate Now!
Home
About Us
The Committee
Our Family Days
Become A Member
Events
Up Coming
Recent
Mayor of Swindon’s Charity Night 2015
Swindon’s Symphony Orchestra 2015
Swindon Screams 2
Wyvern Concert 2015
Annual Golden Ball 2014
British 10K London Run 2014
What Is Goldenhar?
Contact Us
Home
About Us	-The Committee
-Our Family Days
-Become A Member
Events	-Up Coming
-Recent		--Mayor of Swindon’s Charity Night 2015
--Swindon’s Symphony Orchestra 2015
--Swindon Screams 2
--Wyvern Concert 2015
--Annual Golden Ball 2014
--British 10K London Run 2014
What Is Goldenhar?
Contact Us
WELCOME TOGOLDENHAR UKEVENTS COMING UP2017MAY 2017GOLDENHAR UK FAMILY WEEKEND, GLASGOW
“Being different is hard, but being different is what makes me, me”
Welcome To Goldenhar UK
The site is written and run by families who have first hand experience of this medical condition and are NOT medical professionals… Read more
How To Donate
Donations allow us to help families and children who have been affected by Goldenhar Syndrome… Read more
What Is Goldenhar Syndrome?
Goldenhar Syndrome is an ‘umbrella’ term for a wide range of bone abnormalities affecting the face and sometimes the vertebrae. It has been proven not to be genetic… Read more
Our Family Days
Our family days are our main event. Each year our members get together...
Read more
Support For Children
Our family events have become vital part of the support network for ch...
Read more
New Families
Finding our your new born child has Goldenhar can be a worrying time f...
Read more
Donate NowMake a Donation Today
About Goldenhar UK We're a small UK based charity setup to help and support families affected by Goldenhar Syndrome, Hemifacial Microsomia and Microtia
How to Donate Your contribution is very valuable to us and we thank you for your support!
Donate Now!
Useful Pages Press
Funding Policy
Privacy Policy
Useful Links
Search Form
© Copyright 2003 - 2015 Goldenhar Family Support Group (UK)
Registered Charity 1099642
Facebook
Twitter
Contact Us
