Independent Herbalife Member - Healthy Heart
Healthy Heart
May 134
90 Day – Level 10 Body Transformation Challenge
The Level 10 Challenge combines an exercise programme both cardio workouts and and strength training, personalised nutritional intake from Herbalife, ongoing coaching and regular body composition testing with a focus on getting results, whether weight loss or toning or fitness.
The Level 10 Body Transformation Challenge encourages participants to reach their ultimate goal and be the best they can be whether it be weight loss, body fat loss or even gaining muscle. Prizes are paid in 6 categories at the end of the 90 day period.
More details
Tags: body fat loss, Level 10 Body Transformation Challenge, muscle gain, weight loss Posted in Level 10 by admin.
No Comments
May 128
Home Workout DVD
Herbalife 24 FIT is a 24-week  home workout DVD program, designed to build your fitness in an effective and sustainable way. The Herbalife 24 FIT program was developed by Herbalife with the help of Robert Forster, a well-known physical therapist. The 24Fit Workout trains your body to burn fat instead of carbs.
The box set includes:
13 DVDs, including the introduction DVD and 12 workout DVDs.
Fitness Guide, which provides step-by-step instructions on how to do each exercise correctly and helps you maximize results and avoid injury.
Product Guide, which helps you determine the best Herbalife24 products to use with each workout in order to get the most out of the program.
Workout Schedule: Informs you which workout to do on each day of the program to help you stay on track with your routine.
Quickstart Guide: Gives you a brief overview of the program to get you started.
ANY AGE. ANY CONDITION. ANYONE CAN BUILD A BETTER BODY WITH HERBALIFE 24 FIT
The Herbalife24 FIT  Home Workout program has been broken down into three distinct phases, each of which builds upon the progress you’ve made in the previous one. Follow the program exactly as designed, get plenty of rest and the new body you’ve always wanted is sure to follow.
Tags: herbalife 24 fit, home workout dvd, home workout program Posted in Exercise by admin.
No Comments
Feb 123
The Benefits Of Nitric Oxide
Nitric Oxide is a short-lived, gaseous molecule that is produced in your cells. Once released into the bloodstream, it signals the body to perform certain functions such as vasodilatation opening up the blood vessels and capillaries to increase blood flow and deliver oxygen and critical nutrients throughout your body at the time it needs them most. Do you ever wonder why people suffering from chest pain are often prescribed and instructed to take nitroglycerine? It’s because the body uses nitroglycerine to produce high levels of NO quickly by opening the coronary arteries and increasing the flow of blood to the heart.
Nitric Oxide is the natural performance booster that strengthens your heart, lungs, and nerves, along with every cell in your body. It also allows you to prolong your exercise, and prolonged exercise increases NO levels in your body. It’s a virtuous cycle that can lead to improved athletic performance and better health.
For the athlete seeking enhance performance, endurance and strength, as well as faster recovery, the availability of Nitric Oxide in the body is critically important. As any endurance athlete can tell you, a triathlon or other long-distance event becomes a competition between body parts over demand for the blood supply. The skin wants the blood circulating to dissipate heat, but the muscles are screaming for the oxygen and nutrients that the blood carries. Meanwhile, the stomach needs blood to digest food and make those nutrients available in the first place. It’s not hard to see how ample NO, with its ability to increase circulation, would be critical to athletic performance.
But as additional research is beginning to show us, NO doesn’t stop with cardiovascular benefits. It now appears that NO is the “master signaling molecule” throughout the body and that maintaining sufficient levels through exercise and nutrition not only improves cardiovascular condition but also optimizes the function of every body system; this leads to superior athletic results and greater wellness, quality of life, and even longevity.
When you exercise, your body goes through a remarkable process during which it releases NO into your bloodstream. NO is a “signaling molecule.” Its sole function is to send out various biological signals that regulate the activity of cells and instruct the body to perform certain functions. Some of the benefits that your body gains from NO include increased blood flow to muscles and organs as well as better cardiovascular and enhanced lung functions, but that is just the tip of the iceberg. It turns out that NO benefits nearly every cell and system in the body.
NO is primarily manufactured in the endothelium, which is the layer of cells lining the interior surface of the blood vessels. The endothelial tissue, which separates the blood from the smooth muscles of the vessel walls, is extremely thin and fragile. It’s easy to see what occurs when such a vast, crucial network gets what it needs to function at its biological peak. When your endothelium is well nourished, it produces NO at optimal levels. The NO then rapidly spreads through the cell membranes to the underlying muscle cells, causing the arteries to dilate and blood to flow unimpeded to the heart and other organs.
Because NO functions on a localized basis, it is released by billions of cells throughout the body, enhancing overall functioning. The longer NO circulates in the body, the greater benefit it provides to your cells, cardiovascular system, lungs, nervous system, and organs and the more optimal their functionality will be. The more efficiently each of your cells functions, the more you will be able to produce peak speed, strength, and endurance as part of your athletic endeavors.
Also, the desirable effects of NO aren’t limited to athletes. On the contrary, this molecule is quickly becoming regarded as a critical component of a pro-wellness lifestyle for all people, ranging from athletes to the sedentary. Some of the benefits of sufficient levels of NO include:    Helping to increase cardiovascular capacity and circulation and enhancing oxygen and nutrient delivery to cells.
Helping cells get rid of waste products.
Regulating the muscle tone of blood vessels and having a major impact in controlling blood pressure.
Stopping blood platelets from forming clots, which helps prevent arterial blockages and heart attacks.
Transmitting messages between nerve cells, a process known as neurotransmission.
NO helps slow the accumulation of atherosclerotic plaque in the blood vessels. This artery hardening build up of cholesterol and fats that narrow or block the arteries is a major precursor to coronary heart disease, leading to heart attack and stroke. Our research strongly suggests that NO’s ability to combat this plaque helps produce healthy levels of cholesterol by working in concert with medications commonly prescribed for people with high cholesterol.
NO also help the immune system fight bacterial infections, viruses, and parasites, and even decreases the growth of certain types of cancer. NO is crucial to to memory function, as the brain uses it to help neurons store and retrieve long-term memories and transmit information. As an anti-inflammatory agent, NO is being studied for its potential role in reducing the welling and discomfort of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Author: Dr. Louis Ignarro
Health is Wealth (10 Power Nutrients That Increase Your Odds Of Living To 100)
Tags: blood, body, cell, the benefits of nitric oxide Posted in Books by admin.
No Comments
Mar 1131
Effects of Nitric Oxide
What Is Nitric Oxide?
Nitric oxide, a gas that occurs naturally in the body, is critical for healthy circulation. It helps dilate blood pressure, and it may inhibit the accumulation of arterial plaque.
What are the effects of Nitric Oxide?
Nitric oxide is a signaling molecule primarily produced by cells in the endothelium (inner lining) of blood vessels. A signaling molecule fits into docking sites (receptors) on cell walls and triggers biochemical reactions. Nitric oxide helps  by…
•	Expanding blood vessels. Nitric oxide protects the blood vessels’ smooth muscle tissue from harmful constriction, and this allows blood to circulate with less force.
•	Controlling platelet function. Platelets, cell-like structures in blood that can clump up together, may form blood-blocking clots, the main cause of heart attack and stroke. A vascular network that is enhanced by nitric oxide sheds platelets and inhibits dangerous clots.
•	Reducing arterial plaque by 50%. Arterial plaque, which consists of fatty deposits in the coronary arteries, is the underlying cause of heart diseases. Nitric oxide is an antioxidant that inhibits the passage of monocytes, a type of immune cell, into the artery wall. This in turn reduces the underlying inflammation that promotes plaque.
New Book by Nobel Laureate in Medicine Dr. Louis Ignarro and Naturopathic Physician Dr. Andrew Myers
Health is Wealth (10 Power Nutrients That Increase Your Odds Of Living To 100)
Tags: effects of nitric oxide Posted in Books by admin.
No Comments
Older posts
Blogroll
24 Fit
Coenzyme 1
Level 10 Body
Niteworks
Nitric Oxide Supplements
Products
QuickSpark
Sports
Tweets by @plantprotein
Recent Posts
90 Day – Level 10 Body Transformation Challenge
Home Workout DVD
The Benefits Of Nitric Oxide
Effects of Nitric Oxide
Nadh: The Secret of Our Life Energy
Categories
Books
Exercise
Level 10
Archives
May 2013
May 2012
February 2012
March 2011
Presented by: These materials were prepared by Herbalife Independent Distributor, Herbal Vitality, 68 Swan Walk, Shepperton, TW17 8LY. Contact A. Woodward
Home
Privacy policy
All weight loss claims refer to the Herbalife Weight Management Programme which includes, amongst other things, a balanced diet, regular exercise, an adequate daily fluid intake and appropriate rest.
Herbalife products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
These materials were prepared by an Independent Herbalife Distributor, Herbal Vitality/ A Woodward - 68 Swan Walk, Shepperton. TW17 8LY
Copyright ©
Healthy Heart |   niteworks Theme by Healthy Heart on Privacy policy |
Log In
