The Hidayahblog Guide to Combating Swine Flu | Hidayah Blog
Subscribe
About UsIslamic Resources ArchiveArchives
The Hidayahblog Guide to Combating Swine Flu
By Siddique on
July 20th, 2009
Assalaamu-Alaykum – Peace be Upon you
At the time of writing, the current Swine Flu pandemic has claimed 29 lives in the UK with experts saying that unfortunately more loss of life is to follow.
So how do you beat it? How do you protect yourself from one of the most deadliest viruses on this planet right now?
Well in this short article, we at Hidayahblog aim to put forward the steps we should take in both the material world as well as the spiritual world to safeguard ourselves and our families from Swine Flu. Of course, at the end of the day, the matter rests with Allah Almighty, but that does not mean that we cannot make do with whatever means He has given us.
The NHS Swine Flu Pandemic says that good hygiene is the most effective action to minimize the spread of inflection.  As the catch-line goes:
CATCH IT – Cover your nose and mouth when coughing or sneezing and using a tissue when possible.  If someone coughs or sneezes and they do not cover it, those droplets can spread about one metre (3ft).
BIN IT – Dispose of dirty tissues promptly and carefully do not put in pocket and re-use.
KILL IT - Maintain good basic hygiene, for example, washing hands frequently with soap and water to reduce the spread of the virus from your hands to your face or to other people. Clean hard surfaces (such as door handles and telephones) frequently using a normal cleaning product
If you do become ill stay at home until 2 days after your symptoms resolve you can get the help you need from the NHS and your flu friends as described below.
If you are at work or in a school, nursery, mosque, church, synagogue or any other public or religious building, you should consider the following:
Ensure adequate supplies of cleaning materials are available and that there are procedures for regular cleaning of hard surfaces.
Ensure that hand hygiene facilities are adequate and working properly.
Ensure that you have stocks of tissues, paper towels and soaps.
Consider how you might use hand cleansers, for example at the entrances to rooms or sites without hand-washing faclities.
Check that you have procedures for isolating (with appropriate supervision) anyone who falls ill within your building.
Ensure that your communities are all aware of the relevant procedures that will be put in place during a pandemic and of the infection control.
Flu friends – Please encourage and even organise members of your congregation to be Flu Friends to collect antivirals, essential supplies and food for those in the community that are unable to do so themselves.
So now that we’ve discussed the practical meausres we can implement, let’s talk about the spiritual.
Although there are lost of prayers and supplications of the Prophet (PBUH) we can make, the only authentic Dua (supplication) which is on everybody’s texts and e-mails is the following one:
اللهم إني أعوذ بك من الجنون، والجذام والبرص، وسيئ الأسقام
Allahumma Innee A’uthubika Minal Barasi Wal Junooni Wal Judhaami Wa Sayyi’il Asqaam
Oh Allah, I seek your refuge
from leprosy, insanity, mutilation and from all serious illnesses.
Sunan an-Nasai
There are also lots of other prayers from the Ahaadith (Traditions of the Prophet PBUH) and the Holy Qur’an which we should all be praying on a daily basis for general protection from harm and disease, but you will be able to see the relevance of this one by looking at the meaning.
So there you have it – our quick guide to combating Swine Flu.  Insha-Allah (with the help of Allah) I hope that I have shown all our readers how Islam teaches us to tackle even things like disease.  By taking the practical means that God has given us, but then at the end ALWAYS turning back to Him and acknowledging that we only have these practical means because of Him and they only work because He wills it.
And Allah knows best.
Ma’as-salaam – With Peace
Categories: Apothecary,
Did You Know?,
General,
Muslim Life,
The Way of the Prophet (PBUH)
Tags: beating swine flu, combating swine flu, duas for swine flu, fight swine flu, islamic prayers for swine flu, nhs, nhs guidelines for swine flu, nhs swine flu advice, protecting against swine flu, protection fro m swine flu, safeguarding your family from swine flu, swine flu
Email This Post
» Print This Post
2 Responses
to “The Hidayahblog Guide to Combating Swine Flu”
mustafa mohammad
Aug 10th, 2009
at 10:26 am
Dear Sir,
As-salaam-walequm.
I am very much worried about the dangerous disease known as Swine Flu. And I want to ask you one thing that if we pray 5 times Namaaz and drink the Waju water , can we be safe from this disease ??
Please reply, because I can inform many people of any religion to rely on 5 times Namaaz and drinking of Waju water daily.
Regards,
Mustafa Mohammad.
Siddique
Aug 16th, 2009
at 12:27 pm
I have heard nowhere that if a person drinks Wuzu water then he or she will be safe from swine flu.
However, we should always pray our 5 times daily namaaz and thereafter pray to Allah to protect us from the disease.
You should also drink ZamZam water and make intention before drinking it that you wish to be protected, as it comes in Hadith that whatever Dua a person makes before drinking ZamZam water will be accepted.
Leave a Reply
Name Required
Email (not published) Required
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <blockquote cite=""> <code> <em> <strong>
« Video of the Week – The Veil
The Role Model to End all Role Models!! »
Archives
June 2011
September 2010
August 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
Copyright © 2017 Hidayah Blog.Powered by WordPress.Visionary Theme
