Purple Sage Medicinal Herbs
Welcome to Purple Sage Medicinal Herbs.
This website is maintained by a
Medical Herbalist
as an information
resource for those interested in medicinal herbs and their applications,
including
students of complementary and alternative medicine, botanists, gardeners, cooks, and anyone
wanting to learn more about traditional herbal medicine. If you are intending to
use herbal medicines yourself you should first read the
safety statement.
Search within this website only
Site Contents
Herb Profiles: An expanding database
of monographs on individual herbs and their medicinal uses. These can be located
by either the Common or Botanical name and are accompanied by a
glossary of
medical terminology used in the text.
Treatments: This section deals with a selection of common ailments and
possible herbal treatments.
Shop: Buy dried
herbs, herbal capsules, lotions & potions, books, gifts and much
more. The Online Shopping Basket is available only to UK customers.
Orders from overseas are welcome too, but you must email your order to me so
that I can work out shipping costs to your country.
Books and Equipment shop: In association with Amazon, all the
herbal books and equipment you'll need, all in one place. Mainly aimed at
students and practitioners, there's something here for everyone who loves herbs
Recipes: Seasonal recipes and simple crafts
using herbs and spices.
Links: Other sites which you may find of
interest, including suppliers of herb seeds and plants, how to find your nearest
medical herbalist, conservation organisations, holidays & activities, and lots
more.
Back to top
Which herb books are being recommended by Amazon this week?
-
click here
Who
am I?
My name is Christine Haughton
and I am a medical herbalist
living and working in North Yorkshire, England. I am a member of the National
Institute of Medical Herbalists and the College of Practitioners of Phytotherapy,
and a Fellow of the Royal Society for Public Health. My practice is located in
West Heslerton - about 10 miles east of  Malton and 12 miles west of
Scarborough, North Yorkshire.
If you
would like to make an appointment for a consultation, please call me on 01944 728305 between 9am
and 5pm, Monday to Friday - it would be appreciated if you could call only during these times. If I am unable to take your call
(I don't interrupt client consultations to answer the phone), please leave a message with your name and
telephone number so that I can get back to you. Alternatively, send an email to
woldfarm@aol.com.
You should
telephone ONLY if you wish to make an appointment - please use email for
all other enquiries.
You should allow up to an hour and a half for your first consultation
and up to 45 minutes for follow-up visits. Payment is by cheque or cash. Please
note that I cannot accept credit/debit card payments for consultations.
NB. I am prohibited from giving specific
medical advice to individuals over the internet or telephone so please do not waste your time
or mine by emailing or calling me with detailed information about your health problems
- I can only undertake face-to-face consultations for what should be obvious
reasons. Diagnoses cannot be made remotely, and I cannot offer any advice or
treatment until I am satisfied that I know what I'm dealing with!  The herb profiles and treatment suggestions on this website will
help enable you to choose which herbs might be appropriate for minor ailments.
For more serious or chronic conditions you should seek professional advice. This
is particularly important if you are taking medication from your doctor or
pharmacist, as some herbs can interact adversely with other drugs. If you
would like to have a consultation with a medical herbalist then you should
click
here to find a qualified practitioner in
your area.
Please note that I am unable to take telephone
orders for items in the online shop - you may order online or by post and you
can find instructions on how to do both by clicking here.
By the way, the name 'Purple Sage' was inspired by the 70's San
Francisco band New Riders of the Purple Sage of 'Lonesome LA Cowboy' fame!
View Larger Map
Safety
Statement
The information and recommendations contained within this web site are not
intended to take the place of diagnosis and treatment by a qualified
practitioner. I cannot accept responsibility for any adverse effects which arise
from self-medication. Any persistent condition should always be referred to a
medical herbalist or doctor, and all medicines, including herbs, should be
avoided during pregnancy unless prescribed by a doctor or herbalist. Never give
herbs to babies and children without checking with a qualified professional
first. Likewise, never take herbs in conjunction with other medication without
first checking whether it is safe to do so.
Many individuals practice as herbalists in spite of having little or no
training in medical, pharmacological or botanical sciences. Therefore, it is
important to choose a qualified practitioner
who is a member of a professional
organisation with appropriate
insurance. They should have completed a
minimum of three years full-time
training, - you should never be afraid to ask for evidence of this. Just because
herbs are 'natural', it does not mean that they are safe for everyone to use.
Only a trained practitioner will be fully aware of potential adverse effects and
herb-drug interactions, and will be able to recognise those circumstances in
which herbs may not be
the most appropriate treatment.
To find your nearest qualified medical herbalist, contact the National
Institute of Medical Herbalists (NIMH) or the College of Practitioners of
Phytotherapy (CPP), whose members have all undergone a rigorous three to
four-year training course and who adhere to a strict professional code of
ethics. Contact details are listed below. Your local Yellow Pages may also list
herbalists in your area - look for the initials MNIMH, FNIMH or MCPP after their
name.
PROFESSIONAL ORGANISATIONS
National Institute of Medical Herbalists
Elm House
54 Mary Arches Street
Exeter
EX4 3BA
Tel. 01392 426022
email: nimh@ukexeter.freeserve.co.uk
College of Practitioners of Phytotherapy
Oak Glade
9 Hythe Close
Polegate
East Sussex
BN26 6LQ
Tel. 01323 484353
email: pamela.bull@btopenworld.com
USA
The American Herbalists Guild (AHG)
1931 Gaddis Road
Canton
GA 30115
Tel. 770-751-6021
email: ahgoffice@earthlink.net
Australia
National Herbalists Association
NHAA Office
PO Box 45
CONCORD WEST
NSW 2138
Australia
Ph: (02) 8765 0071
email: nhaa@nhaa.org.au
