Hypospadias - Information For Men, Boys and Parents
Hypospadias UK Trust
Information about hypospadias for men, boys and parents from the UK Hypospadias Trust
Skip to content
HomeAbout Hypospadias
Audio – Interview With Men Who Have Hypospadias
Causes Of Hypospadias
Emotional Consequences
How Can We Educate The Public?
Life Stories
More Life Stories
Statistics About Hypospadias
Treatment
Useful Resources & Articles
What Can Parents Do To Assist Their Sons?
Where To Contact Us
Could You Help With A Research Project?
Posted on February 25, 2016 by admin
I am a researcher and senior lecturer in developmental psychology at Birmingham City University. I am interested in carrying out a research project that explores parental pre-operative and post-operative experiences and concerns of hypospadias repair outcome.
We are looking for parents of children whose
Pre- surgery is within 24 months of birth.
Or
Post- surgery has occurred in the last three months.
Both groups are for males with hypospadias.
Parents must also be English speakers.
There will be set questions that will ask about parents initial anxieties about surgery and/or their experiences and or concerns after surgery has taken place. What I hope that this research will achieve is to inform professionals about parental experiences at or during what we know is a stressful time for parents.
If you are interested in taking part, I would be happy to send you further information about the study. This will include an information sheet and consent form for you to consider.
Please use the email below to express an interest in taking part in the study or to receive further information.
Jagjeet.jutley-neilson@bcu.ac.uk
If you do decide to take part in the study, please complete the consent form and send it back to the researcher via email (Jagjeet.jutley-neilson@bcu.ac.uk).
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any further questions. I look forward to hearing from you!
Posted in Hypospadias research
|
Comments Off on Could You Help With A Research Project?
Recent Research – Update
Posted on July 16, 2015 by admin
Update On The Recent Hypospadias Interview Study by Matt Jackson
I am currently completing the analysis and write-up for this research study.
I just wanted to say that I am extremely grateful for the interest everyone showed in taking part, and indebted to those men who gave up their time to talk to me about hypospadias and help me understand what it is about in a phenomenal level of detail.
I am on matthewjackson@me.com if anyone would like a more detailed update pending a formal report and publication in a medical journal.
Posted in Hypospadias research
|
Comments Off on Recent Research – Update
Support & Education – Welcome
Posted on August 8, 2013 by admin
This site is published by the Hypospadias UK Charitable Trust, which has been formed to support men and boys with hypospadias.
The site is written for boys, men, and parents of boys, with the aim of providing basic information and advice for anyone who has the condition called hypospadias. This is a relatively common birth defect, but it is rarely discussed, and very little has been written about it for the lay reader.
Of the four persons who have contributed to this website, three have hypospadias themselves and the fourth has extensive experience in discussing issues and counselling men with the condition.
The level of discussion and presentation is intended to be suitable for people without specialised medical training. We have included commonly used terms instead of scientific names in the hope that this will make the material easier to read and understand. Where appropriate we have given the anatomical or medical term in brackets ( ).
This site is NOT meant to be a scientific review or a discussion of the relatively little scientific and medical literature that has been published to date about hypospadias. However, some of the issues discussed here are based on authoritative sources, and references can be provided if required.
None of the authors of this site is a surgeon specialising in hypospadias. It will quickly become apparent that we believe that there may be too much emphasis placed on corrective surgery at present.
While the severity of your difference from the normal may call for surgery in many cases – and there are many examples of excellent work being done in this field – we think it is important to recognise that choosing not to have surgery is often a viable option which may deliver better long term outcomes, particularly if counselling and support are also provided as required.
Posted in Hypospadias information
|
Comments Off on Support & Education – Welcome
Search for:
Hypospadias UK Trust
Proudly powered by WordPress.
