Welcome to the Hysterectomy Association
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Search for:
Menu
Home
Information
Store
Join Us
Forums
Blog
Support
Research
My Account
Home
Information
Store
Join Us
Forums
Blog
Support
Research
My Account
£0.00 0 items
Welcome to the Hysterectomy Association
The Hysterectomy Association provides impartial information about hysterectomy, women’s health, the menopause and hormone replacement therapy to women who are facing surgery for a variety of gynaecological problems. Our aim is to help you make the right choice for your needs. Our woman to woman support helps you gain perspective and become more informed about your hysterectomy options and recovery. Understanding the alternatives and choices you can make about your hysterectomy can help you make a better, and more informed choice about your own health now and for the future.
Roughly 55,000 hysterectomies are performed in the UK every year. Between 30,000 and 40,000 of these take place in the NHS. Globally, 1.2 million women can expect to undergo this form of surgery for reasons that range from heavy periods, fibroids, endometriosis, prolapse, cancer and postpartum haemorrhage.
Hysterectomy is defined as the surgical removal of the uterus or womb. A hysterectomy may be total, that is removing the whole of the uterus (womb) and the cervix; it may be sub-total, that is removing the uterus or womb but leaving the cervix intact. In addition to the womb, the ovaries and the fallopian tubes may also be removed, this is called a hysterectomy with bi-lateral salpingo oophorectomy.
Information
Hysterectomy
Menopause
Women’s Health
HRT
Research
Hysterectomy Research
Hysterectomy Statistics
Hysterectomy Infographics
With thanks to Mark Paladi, Diego Naive, Lemon Liu, Patrick Trouve, Role Play, Calvin Ng, Michael Thompson and TNS from the Noun Project for their icons.
SHOP ONLINE
DIRECTORY
JOIN US
FORUMS
WOMEN’S STORIES
SHARE YOUR STORY
DOWNLOAD UPDATES
Recent Posts
Taking the decision for abdominal subtotal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingectomy – Gill’s story
East Midlands Patients, Carer & Public Networking Event
5 healing vitamins and minerals post hysterectomy
My hysterectomy journey – Marianne’s story
My abdominal hysterectomy nightmare – Fiona’s story
About Us The Hysterectomy Association is a social enterprise providing impartial information and peer to peer support for women.
Learn more about us..
What People Say..
I enjoyed receiving the daily email. The one regarding how you are feeling better but still shouldn’t do too much and rest was very relevant for me.
Julia
Get In Touch Bakehouse Cottage,
Clifton Maybank,
Yeovil
BA22 9UZ
e: info@hysterectomy-association.org.uk
More contact details
My Account
Search
Search for:
0
© Hysterectomy Association 2008
Contact Us
Press & Media
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Statement
Wholesale Distribution
Advertise With Us
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read MorePrivacy & Cookies Policy
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
