ISMA International Stress Management Association
International Stress Management Association Promoting Stress Prevention and Wellbeing
Contact Us
Buy From Our Shop
Log in×ISMA Members Login
Please enter your email address and password
Log in
International Stress Management Association Promoting Stress Prevention and Wellbeing
Home
Welcome
About ISMA
Who We Are
Our Objectives
ISMA's Mission Statement
ISMA International
National Stress Awareness Day
Proud Supporters
2016 Conference Summary
Testimonials
Showreel
2017 Conference
About Stress
Facts about Stress
How to Identify Stress
FAQ's
Membership FAQ's
Reset Password
How To Join ISMA
Renew Membership
How To Pay Using Wire Transfer
How To Pay Using PayPal
How To Cancel Your Account
How To View Expiration Date Of Membership
Useful Links
Books and Publications
Free Downloads
Join ISMA
Associate Membership (non-voting)
Professional Member
Corporate Micro
Corporate Small
Corporate Medium
Corporate Large
Corporate Enterprises
Friends Of ISMA
Code of Conduct
CPD Programme
ISMA Charter
Charter Subscription
Events
Find a Consultant / Practitioner
Contact Us
Shop
Menu
×
Menu
Home About ISMA Board of Trustees Our Objectives ISMA's Mission Statement ISMA International National Stress Awareness Day Proud Supporters About Stress Facts About Stress How to Identify Stress FAQ's Useful Links Books & Publications Free Downloads Welcome Join ISMA Code of Conduct Apply for Membership CPD Programme ISMA Charter Charter Subscription Events Find a Consultant / Practitioner Contact Us Shop
Login
Remember Me
Create an account
Forgot your username?
Forgot your password?
Meet the TV nutritionist Patrick Holford, in person
Listen, learn and debate with experts at our conference, 16th June. Central London
Book Tickets NowHow mental health campaigner Jonny Benjamin fought and won
Listen, learn and debate with experts at our conference, 16th June. Central London
Learn MoreGain by participating in regional activity and network with like minded professionals
Please contact us when you need a speaker for your upcoming event, or for media comment.
Join us at our conference on Friday 16th June in central London. We look forward to seeing you.
Carole Spiers FISMA, MIHPE, Chair, ISMAUK
BOOK NOW
NSAD Showreel
Selected clips from National Stress Awareness Day 2.11.16. Top stress experts, presenting their theories and therapies.
Annual Flagship Event
National Stress Awareness Day - 1st November 2017. Hear from Carole Spiers, the originator and Chair of ISMA.
Earlybird Prices for ISMA Conference
Book now for our popular annual conference in June. Only £167 - or £127 for members. Bargain offer expires March 31st.
Learn More About ISMAUK And What We Can Do For You
Since 1984, the role of ISMAUK has been to raise the profile of stress-related issues both in the home and workplace; combat the stigma often associated with personal stress; change attitudes towards the management of stress at work.
Welcome to ISMA
Need to Deliver a Training Course To Your Clients?
Our 1-Stop stress management training pack including workbook, assessment tool, leaflets and powerpoint presentation is immediately available for purchase. This is ideal for you to deliver either one-to-one or group sessions.
Find Out More
ISMA conference, London, June 16th. Book Now
The leading lights of the stress management world under one roof. Keynote speeches, masterclasses and interactive sessions. Your opportunity to grow personally and professionally at the same time. In the elegant surroundings of London’s clubland.
Book Now
Join Us On National Stress Awareness Day - 1/11/2017
Our annual flagship event, NSAD was established in 1998 and is regularly covered by the national print and broadcast media. This is a great opportunity for ISMAUK members to showcase their products and / or services.
Find Out More
Our Branches
We have ISMA branches worldwide including
About ISMA
The International Stress Management Association [ISMAUK] is a registered charity and the lead professional body for workplace and personal Stress Management, Well-being and Performance. We promote sound knowledge and best practice, nationally and internationally.
Subscribe to our Newsletter
BOOKS & PUBLICATIONS
Read the latest books written by ISMA members.
FREE DOWNLOADS
Top 10 Stress Busting Tips
Facts About Stress
How To Identify Stress
The 60 Second Tranquilliser
How Important Is Your Worry
View All Free Downloads
Contact Us
Please type your full name.
Invalid email address.
Invalid Input
Invalid Input
Submit
Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy
Registered Charity Number 1088103. Company registered in England. Company limited by guarantee, number 4079657
Registered Office; Aston House,Cornwall Avenue, London, N3 1LF
Copyright © 2009 - 2016 ISMAUK
