iritis.com: Iritis and uveitis information page
This site provides information on iritis and uveitis, and the
conditions associated with these eye diseases.  There are message boards
where questions may be asked and experiences shared.  It is provided as a
service to patients worldwide by an ophthalmologist in England.
Click here to
enter iritis.com
You shouldn't have scrolled down so far!  This following text is mainly
intended for search engines to index, and may not be the latest versions
Welcome to iritis .com
iritis (uveitis) is a common eye
condition in which the iris is inflamed. This site aims to draw together
patients who suffer from iritis (uveitis), and doctors who treat it.
I started this site
because many of my iritis (uveitis) patients clearly wanted to know more about their
condition. However, in a government hospital setting there is never enough time
to explain things as much as one would wish. I also started this site because
for many patients, being able to discuss their condition with others is
therapeutic in itself.
For those people with iritis (uveitis) associated with medical conditions,
links to self-help and advice groups
are given.
While all information is given
freely and in good faith, I cannot be liable for the information given on this
site, as the information is not tailored to your particular condition.
This is not the only iritis (uveitis) site on the net – other sites are listed in the directory of external
links – but it is the only site started and maintained by an ophthalmologist.
I hope you find it helpful.
Dr Victor Chua MA (Cantab), MB BChir (Cantab), MRCSE (Ophth.)
Cambridge, England
16 June 2000
What
is iritis (uveitis)?
Your
eye doctor may
have diagnosed that you have a condition known as iritis (uveitis). This
is a condition where a part of the eye, the iris,
becomes inflamed.
With
proper treatment an attack of
iritis (uveitis)
can be controlled.
What are the signs of iritis (uveitis)?
Eye
pain (may be severe)
Blurred
or decreased vision
Sensitivity
to light (photophobia)
Red
eye
Tears
Smaller
pupil on affected eye (sometimes)
Red
right eye in iritis (uveitis)
It
is more common for just one eye to be affected during an attack of iritis (uveitis).
However both eyes can be affected at the same time.
Generally,
the eye is not sticky, crusty or
producing a discharge. These are symptoms more suggestive of conjunctivitis.
What is the iris?
The iris is the structure behind the cornea of the eye which dilates and
constricts.  In bright light, the iris constricts (you may have noticed
this yourself).  In dim light, it dilates.
What is the difference between the iris and the pupil?
The pupil is defined as the the hole in the middle of the iris.  The
iris is the structure which is around the hole and defines the hole.
Are
there different kinds of iritis (uveitis)?
What is the difference between iritis (uveitis) and uveitis?
Yes. iritis (uveitis)
is the commonest of a family of conditions called uveitis. The uvea
extends from the front of the eye to the back of the eye. Where the uvea is
inflamed at the front of the eye involving the iris,
uveitis is synonymous with iritis (uveitis).
Where it inflamed near the middle of the eye involving the ciliary
body, it is called cyclitis. When
the back of the eye involving the choroid
is inflamed, it is called choroiditis.
What
are the causes of iritis (uveitis)?
Unknown
(this is the most common)
Certain
medical conditions such as:
Ankylosing
spondylitis
Ulcerative
colitis
Crohn’s
disease
Sarcoidosis
Injury
to the eye
Surgery
to the eye
Infections
such as:
Shingles
or chickenpox virus (herpes zoster)
Cold
sore virus (herpes simplex)
Parasite,
eg toxoplasmosis
Is iritis (uveitis) contagious?
Very
few people with iritis (uveitis) have a contagious variety. If you do, your doctor will
tell you.
Can
attacks of iritis (uveitis) be prevented?
Generally
speaking, no. No-one knows why people have recurrent attacks at particular
times. There is published evidence that earthquake victims have much higher
rates of recurrence so some doctors think stress may be a factor.
How
is iritis (uveitis) diagnosed?
When
symptoms occur, a prompt examination by an ophthalmologist (medical doctor
specializing in the eye) is important. If left untreated, inflammation in the
eye can lead to permanent damage or even in extreme cases blindness.
The
ophthalmologist will use instruments to examine the inside of the eye and can
usually make the diagnosis on that basis. Since uveitis can be associated with
disease elsewhere in the body, he will require a thorough understanding of your
overall health. This may involve consultation with other medical specialists. He
may also request blood tests, X-rays, and other specialized tests to establish a
cause of the uveitis.
How
is iritis (uveitis) treated?
Eye
drops, especially steroids (such as Prednisolone
[PredForte]or Dexamethasone
[Maxidex]) and pupil
dilators, are medications used to reduce inflammation and pain in the front of
the eye. The steroid drops may need to be instilled frequently (in severe cases
as much as every half an hour). Your ophthalmologist will arrange to see you
again to assess the progress of the treatment and will, according to the degree
of inflammation, decrease or increase the treatment.
Pupil
dilating drops (such as Cyclopentolate
[Mydrilate] or Atropine) make you feel more
comfortable and prevent certain complications of iritis (uveitis). However you may become
more sensitive to bright light, especially during the summer, and you may lose
the ability to focus on near objects (accommodation),
and your vision may become more blurred.
Aren’t
steroids harmful?
Steroids
taken by mouth have side-effects. However steroid eye drops are absorbed
principally by the eye and do not cause the same side-effects as oral steroids.
In a small proportion of people steroid eye drops cause the pressure in the eye
to rise above normal. Your ophthalmologist will measure the pressure in the eye
to discover if you are one of these people and will treat you accordingly.
What
are the possible complications of uveitis?
In
most cases complications are rare, but they include:
Glaucoma
(high pressure in the eye causing damage)
Cataract
(clouding of the lens of the eye)
New
blood vessel formation (neovascularization)
These
complications may themselves need treatment. If complications are advanced,
conventional or laser surgery may be required.
What
is the probable outcome?
Uveitis
arising in the front or middle of the eye (iritis (uveitis)
or cyclitis) is commonly more sudden
in onset, generally lasting six to eight weeks, and in early stages can usually
be controlled by the frequent use of drops. Often, this type of uveitis cannot
be given a specific cause.
Uveitis
in the back part of the eye (choroiditis)
is commonly slower in onset and may last longer, and is often more difficult to
treat. Treatment may involve steroid tablets or injections. Often, multiple
tests are required to find the cause of this type of uveitis.
With
infections, uveitis tends to clear up once the underlying infection is treated.
Are
there any restrictions to what I can do?
You
should not drive a car if you can’t see properly. Dark glasses will make you
feel more comfortable. Whether you will need to give up work depends on the
severity of the symptoms. There is no special diet required.
Back
to iritis (uveitis).com home
Types of iritis (uveitis)
iritis (uveitis) may be associated with the conditions listed
below.  However, it is important to realize that the majority of cases
of iritis (uveitis) have no known association.
If your ophthalmologist has reason to suspect that
you have an associated condition, he may request tests such as blood tests and
x-rays to confirm the associated condition.
The information given in the headings below apply only
if you have the known associated condition. Some of them are very rare. The more
common associations are listed first.
"B27" iritis (uveitis)
50% of iritis (uveitis) sufferers are positive in a blood
test that looks for a protein found on cell surfaces called "HLA-B27".
"B27" is also associated with the following conditions:
Ankylosing
spondylitis
Psoriasis
Ulcerative
colitis
Crohn's disease
Reiter's syndrome
Non-infectious associations
Fuch's heterochromic
iridocyclitis
Intermediate
uveitis
Sarcoidosis
The following are very rare in the Western world
Behçet's disease
VKH (Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada)
disease
The following association is very rare, full stop
Multiple sclerosis
Infections associated with iritis (uveitis)
Herpes simplex (cold sore)
Varicella zoster (shingles)
The following are very rare
Tuberculosis (TB)
Acquired syphilis
Leprosy
Lyme disease
Toxoplasmosis
iritis (uveitis) due to injury
An impact or penetrating injury to the eye may cause iritis (uveitis).  As an
infection may mimic iritis (uveitis), it is vital that an ophthalmologist be consulted if
there is any possible doubt about ocular penetration.
iritis (uveitis) due to surgery
Any intra-ocular surgery, such as cataract extraction or trabeculectomy for
glaucoma, will cause some degree of iritis (uveitis) for a few weeks after surgery.
To reduce inflammation your eye surgeon will prescribe steroid drops to reduce
the inflammation.  Exact regimes differ from surgeon to surgeon.
iritis (uveitis) in children
Juvenile chronic arthritis
(in USA, Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis)
Back
to iritis (uveitis).com home
Frequently Asked Questions
What is iritis (uveitis)?
There is a whole page devoted to this.  Click
here.
Why is the font size in iritis (uveitis).com so big?
This is because many patients with iritis (uveitis) have poor vision, or are using
dilating drops which reduce near visual acuity.  If it is too big (or too
small), you can change the text
size in your browser.  For example, in Microsoft Internet Explorer select
View from the menu and then Text Size.
What is the difference between iritis (uveitis) and uveitis?  Sometimes I am told
I have iritis (uveitis), sometimes I am told I have uveitis, but the symptoms are the same
to me
iritis (uveitis) is a kind of uveitis, specifically it is the same as "anterior
uveitis".  There are three types of uveitis - anterior, intermediate,
and posterior. Intermediate and posterior uveitis are rare conditions. iritis (uveitis)
(=
anterior uveitis) is
a common condition.
Isn't iritis (uveitis) due to an infection?  I thought most diseases ending in -itis
were caused by infection
Few cases of iritis (uveitis) are caused by infection, although
infection is a rare cause. The -itis suffix actually denotes inflammation,
which is not the same as infection. Infection is caused by an external organism
invading the body.
Inflammation is one response of the body to infection.
Unfortunately, inflammation may occur when the body's immune system targets
itself inappropriately. In most cases of iritis (uveitis), it is the inappropriate targeting
which occurs.
What are the functions of the drops I have been prescribed?
There are many drops used in the treatment of iritis (uveitis). The two main kinds of
drops used in iritis (uveitis) are
Steroid drops
Dilating drops
Steroid drops
Steroid drops (also known as corticosteroid drops) are used to decrease inflammation, which is the cause of pain
and redness of the eye. Steroid drops come in different varieties and strengths,
and may be taken as often as every half an hour or as infrequently as twice a
week.  For most attacks of iritis (uveitis) your ophthalmologist will advise steroid
drops every two hours or so for the first few days.
Examples of steroid drops (brand names in [brackets]):
Prednisolone [PredForte; Predsol is a weaker formulation]
Dexamethasone [Maxidex]
Betamethasone [Betnesol]
Fluoromethalone [FML]
Hydrocortisone [Neo-Cortef]
Clobetosone butyrate [Cloburate]
Rimexolone [Vexol]
Dilating drops
Dilating drops are used to relax (ie. make large) the pupil and the
ciliary musle. There are two reasons for this: first, relaxing the pupil helps
prevent the formation of posterior
synechiae, and second, relaxing the pupil and ciliary muscle decreases the
pain associated with iritis (uveitis).
Dilating drops have differing duration of action, noted below:
Atropine (1 week)
Homatropine (1 day)
Cyclopentolate 0.5% [Mydrilate] (8 hours)
Tropicamide 1% [Mydriacyl] (6 hours)
The duration of action given is approximate.  For example, the effect of
atropine may wear off in a few days in some people, a few weeks in others.
Are there any side effects from steroid drops?
About 5% of the population are "steroid responders", meaning that
the intraocular pressure goes up when steroid drops are used. Your
ophthalmologist will measure your intraocular pressure on your first two visits
to determine whether you fall into this group.
If you are a steroid responder, your ophthalmologist may prescribe
anti-glaucoma medication to bring the pressure down, or he may prescribe a
weaker steroid such as FML.  A new steroid drop, Rimexolone, which has high
potency but low potential to increase pressure has come on the market.
If you are a steroid responder, you should remember this fact and mention it
to your ophthalmologist on your next visit so that he can take appropriate
action to minimise a rise in pressure.
Other side effects are few. The purpose of steroid drops is to decrease
inflammation. Therefore, while you are on steroid drops your resistence to
external infection will be reduced. Since the wearing of contact lenses may
encourage infection, contact lenses should not be worn.
Are there any side effects from dilating drops?
Blurred vision is the main side effect. Some people may notice dry mouth. In
some people (especially those given atropine) some slowing of the heart beat may
occur.
The last time I had iritis (uveitis) I was given steroid drops. However, for my most
recent attack I was given different steroid drops!  Why?
The different steroid drops have differing strengths: PredForte and Maxidex
are at the strong end of the scale, Betnesol and Predsol are in the middle, and
FML is a weak steroid. They have slightly different penetration characteristics.
Your eye doctor will have a preference.
Probably the commonest drops used in the UK for the treatment of iritis (uveitis)
are
PredForte and Maxidex. There is little to choose between them in strength. Some
doctors and hospitals prefer one drop, some another.  When I used to work
in East Anglia, I prescribed Maxidex; when I moved to the Midlands I started
prescribing PredForte mainly because it was advocated by the local iritis (uveitis)
expert.
Many ophthalmologists (including myself) don't think there is very much
difference between PredForte and Maxidex. There is little or no convincing
research to demonstrate any superiority of one over the other.
The last time I had iritis (uveitis) I was given dilating drops. However, for my most
recent attack I was given different dilating drops!  Why?
Again, the preferences of your ophthalmologist will have a large part to
play. The main difference between the various kinds of dilating drops lies in
their duration of action. There are also significant differences in the severity
of their side effects.
When I used to work in East Anglia, I prescribed cyclopentolate 1% to people
with simple uncomplicated iritis (uveitis). When I moved to the Midlands, atropine was the
standard dilating drop at my new hospital so I started prescribing it instead.
The main difference was that people on cyclopentolate recovered sharp vision
sooner on discontinuing the drop as it only lasts 8 hours on average. People on
atropine had to wait a week. However, there is little or no convincing evidence
to demonstrate any long-term advantage of one dilating drop over the others.
If you have had particular preferences for one type of dilating drop in the
past, you should mention this to your ophthalmologist.
What about non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drops?
These are sometimes used in place of steroid drops in mild cases of iritis (uveitis).
Examples are Diclofenac (Voltarol ophtha) and ketolorac (Acular).
My vision has not got better despite the treatment
The aim of iritis (uveitis) treatment is not short-term restoration of vision, but
rather the long-term preservation of vision. Very often, the vision remains poor
because of dilating drops such as atropine, homatropine, cyclopentolate [Mydrilate],
and tropicamide. By keeping your pupil dilated, your ophthalmologist aims to
minimise the chances of long-term damage to the eye due to posterior
synechiae. The drops also have the effect of lessening the pain in the eye.
If rapid restoration of sight is very important to you, let your
ophthalmologist know. It is possible to prescribe short-acting dilating drops to
be taken before bedtime. However, nobody knows whether this is more or less
likely to lead to complications later. Most ophthalmologists would say that
after two or three days of steroids and constant dilation, dilation at night
only is safe.
If anything, I have become more sensitive to light since treatment commenced
This is probably because you have been given dilating drops, which enlarge
the pupil. This allows more light to enter the eye.
Wear dark glasses.
The doctor gave me an injection in the eye!  Why is this necessary?
In severe cases of iritis (uveitis), or when the iris  is persistently stuck to
the lens, injections into the conjunctiva (the white part of the eye outside the
cornea) are very effective in delivering a constant dose of steroids and
dilating drops to the eye. The effect lasts for a day or two, and virtually all
of my patients are glad that they opted to have it done, as the relief from pain
and discomfort is dramatic.
The procedure sounds much worse than it is. The eye is thoroughly anaesthetized
with drops before the procedure.  There may be some dull pain after the
procedure and the eye may be difficult to close for an hour or so. Your
ophthalmologist may advise padding the eye.
The last time I had iritis (uveitis) my left eye was affected.  This time my
right eye is affected.  My iritis (uveitis) must be getting worse as it has spread from one
eye to the other
The majority of cases of iritis (uveitis) are relapsing and remitting, or in other
words, it comes and goes. There seems to be little in which eye it affects. iritis (uveitis)
going from one eye to another, with a quiet period in between, is normal.
I have been given steroid tablets.  What are the side effects?
Steroid tablets (eg. Prednisolone) are given in cases of complicated uveitis,
often posterior uveitis. They are used to dampen down the immune system.
The major side effects are
Weight gain in the abdominal area
Purple lines on the abdomen and flanks
Round ("moon") face
Increased susceptibility to infection
Water retention
Osteoporosis resulting in brittle bones
Inappropriate hair growth (eg. facial hair in a woman)
Baldness in men
Acne
Muscle wasting
Hypertension (high blood pressure)
Diabetes mellitus
Steroids are given because your ophthalmologist judges that the risks to the
eye outweigh these side effects.  If your side effects are very severe, you
should discuss the pros and cons of steroids with your ophthalmologist.
I seem to get an attack of iritis (uveitis) at least once a year.  Is there any
way I can prevent the attacks from happening?
I'm afraid not!  There have been a few studies which suggest that stress
is a factor. In earthquake victims living in tents in Japan, the rate of iritis (uveitis)
tripled. There are scientific papers noting that flare-ups of rare kinds
of iritis (uveitis) (JCA, Behçet, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada) are less common during pregnancy.
This is probably due to the change in hormones during pregnancy.
I get attacks of iritis (uveitis) frequently.  Do I need to see an
ophthalmologist at all?  Can't my family physician prescribe the
appropriate treatment?
You need to see an ophthalmologist in order to confirm the diagnosis. If you
have only had iritis (uveitis) once or twice, you may be confusing the symptoms of some
other eye condition with that iritis (uveitis).
In particular, corneal ulcers may be mistaken for iritis (uveitis) by both patients and
by non eye-trained doctors. This is an important distinction because corneal
ulcers are made worse by steroid drops.
I keep an unopened bottles of steroid drops and dilating drops in the
refrigerator at home in case I have flare-ups.  Am I taking any risks
self-medicating?
If you have had iritis (uveitis) many times, you may come to recognise the symptoms
accurately. In an ideal world you would see an ophthalmologist to confirm the
diagnosis as soon as you get the symptoms.
In the real world, you may live 100 miles from the nearest ophthalmologist,
or it may be 10 pm on a Saturday night and you may face a six-hour wait at the
nearest hospital's casualty (emergency) department.
If you do self-medicate in these circumstances, the risk you are taking is
small as long as you see an ophthalmologist the next day.
I'm off to Antarctica for six months.  I won't be able to consult an
ophthalmologist if I get an attack of iritis (uveitis).  What can I do?
This is a difficult question, and you alone must weigh up the benefits and
risks. I can only tell you what I would do if it was me myself who had to make
the decision.
If I had very frequent attacks of iritis (uveitis) (more than one every six months)
over the last few years, and there was a high probability of an attack while I
was in Antarctica, I would probably not go.
If attacks were rare (less than one a year), and each attack was not very
severe (not needing injections into the eye), and I was confident that I could
recognise the symptoms of iritis (uveitis) accurately then I might well pack some unopened
steroid and dilating drops. However, I would be aware that iritis (uveitis) is a
potentially blinding condition and take that risk accordingly.
What other conditions can cause symptoms of a painful red eye?
Corneal ulcer -- in young people, often associated with contact lens wear.
Treated with antibiotics/antiviral drops depending on the cause. Made worse
by steroid drops.
Corneal abrasions -- due to superficial scratches of the cornea (from direct
trauma or from a foreign body in the eye). Very painful. May lead to corneal
ulcers if not treated with antibiotics as a precaution.
Recurrent corneal erosions -- Very painful, recurrent red eyes due to
unstable corneal epithelium (the surface covering of the cornea).
Bacterial conjunctivitis -- causes a sticky red eye which is more
uncomfortable than painful. Often starts in one eye then spreads to the other.
Treated with antibiotics.
Allergic conjunctivitis -- causes itchy red eyes which are not
particularly painful. Usually affects both eyes. More common in people with
multiple allergies, with asthma, with hayfever, and with eczema (ie. with an atopic
disposition). Treated by drops which reduce the allergic response.
Viral conjunctivitis -- causes a watery eye which is not usually very
painful. Often starts in one eye then spreads to the other. No effective
treatment. May last for a long time (weeks to months).
Chlamydial conjunctivitis -- causes a slightly sticky discomfort in both one
or both eyes which grumbles along for weeks before becoming significant enough
to see a doctor for. Usually sexually transmitted. Effectively treated with
antibiotic tablets.
Episcleritis -- reddening of part of the eye only. May be accompanied by
pain, in which case steroid drops may help. Otherwise goes away by itself after
about a month.
