Life
English
Spanish
home
about us
fungal infections
awareness & advocacy
medical community
media centre
support us
facebook
twitter
linkedin
flickr
youtube
RSS
search
medical community
awareness advocacy
fungal diseases
news
get the facts
>> view
news
>> view
>> subscribe
Our supporters
Professor Tom Harrison, St Georges Hospital, London.
Welcome to LIFE
Awareness. Education. Saving lives
Over 300 million people are acutely or chronically infected by fungi, leading to death, long term illness, blindness, psychological problems and reduced work capacity. Many recent improvements in diagnostics and treatment have not reached treating clinicians in all countries, and access to appropriate diagnostics and simple antifungal agents is far from universal. This needs to change.
LIFE aims to provide the latest information on the most common human pathological fungi, the diseases they cause and their diagnostics and treatment. LIFE is led by Professor David Denning who has been caring for patients with fungal infection for 25 years.
>> LEARN MORE
Take action today
Educate
Recognise & treat fungalinfections: See opportunities for learning
>> VIEW COURSES
Participate
See our news section.Sign up forthe Newsletter.
>> NEWSLETTER
Spreadthe word
Help us change as manylives as possible bysharing this site!
Medical community
Providing medical professionals with the knowledge they need to recognise and treat fungal infections.
LIFE believes knowledge about fungal infections, available diagnosis and treatments are key to improving patient
outcomes.
This site provides you with current knowledge about fungal infections, fungi, diagnosis and treatment.
What the professionals say...
Fungal infections are particularly common in India, now increasing alarmingly. Better trained personnel and access to the best diagnostics is critical if we want to save these patients.
Prof. Arunaloke Chakrabarti, MD
Diagnosis of fungal infections is usually made by identification of fungi that is difficult and slow but fortunately many rapid antigen, antibody and molecular tests are now available. These tests need to be available to everyone.
Dr. Juan Luis Rodriguez Tudela, MD, Ph.D.
Having seen the impact that major international programs can make to a disease area (such as TB), the potential to improve the lives of millions of individuals coping with debilitating fungal infections is huge and currently neglected.
Prof. David S. Perlin, Ph.D.
>> LEARN MORE
Stay informed about life
Add your email below to sign up for our news letter.
×
Latest
Newsletter Archive
.
Site map
Home
About
Media Centre
Partners
Support Us
Join Us
Resource Library
Awareness & Advocacy
Medical Community
Get in touch
You can contact LIFE at the following address:
LIFE is an initiative of the
Fungal Infection Trust
LIFE
PO Box 482, Macclesfield
Cheshire, SK10 9AR
United Kingdom
Email: info@life-worldwide.org
Charity Commission number 1003361
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
×
Your browser does not support playing flash videos
×
Your browser does not support playing flash videos
