:: Leicestershire Diabetes :: Your Online Diabetes Resource
Please enter your login details
Can't access your account?
Email Address:
Password:
leicestershirediabetes.org.uk
Print
Text Size
Sign In
All areasNews & EventsDiabetes ServicesGuide to DiabetesProfessionalResearch
Home
Guide to Diabetes
Diabetes Services
Professional
News & Events
Research
Welcome
The Diabetes Department at the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust is now located at the Leicester General Hospital alongside the Leicester Diabetes Centre. We have created this website to make diabetes support just a click away for patients and healthcare professionals in Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland and across the internet.  Read More
Latest articles
Download the New Leicestershire Diabetes Guidelines 2016New In briefEducation Day 2016 Leicestershire Parents Support Group Of Diabetes UKFree BME Diabetes Accredited Course - 15th October 2015Latest September Leicestershire Medicines Newsletter - includes new advice on liraglutide!
Diabetes Guidelines Download
Guide to Diabetes
In Leicester..The facts
In Leicester .... The facts
The population of Leicestershire is 977,900 people
Total population wit... Learn More
The Islamic Month of Fasting
The Islamic Month of Fasting - Message from the Hospital
Ramadan - The Islamic Month of Fasting
Soo... Learn More
What is Ramadan?
What is Ramadan? And why do i need to keep safe?
A Safer Ramadan in Leicester - Diabetes Education ... Learn More
Keeping your diabetes in control
Keping your diabetes in control - Being Safe whilst Fasting
Are you aware that Ramadan is happening... Learn More
A Safer Ramadan- DESMOND Education
A Safer Ramadan - education Sessions
(23rd April 2015)For people with diabetes who wish to fast dur... Learn More
Food Choices in Ramadan
Food Choices for Ramadan
Your diet during Ramadan should not differ significantly from your normal ... Learn More
Ramadan Facts
Ramadan FactsThere are are many myths and mis interpretations about who can and cannot fast during ... Learn More
Ramadan Resources
Useful resources for the Islamic month of Ramadan for patients, carers and collegues
( July 2014)
N... Learn More
Diabetes Services
Where to find us
Where to Find Us
Diabetes Out patient ServicesSwitchboard for all three hospitals: 0300 3031573
Pat... Learn More
Community Diabetes Specialist Team
Community Diabetes Specialist team
The University Hospitals of Leicester Diabetes Team extend to t... Learn More
Overview Childrens Diabetes Service
Overview Childrens Diabetes Service(march 2014)
The Children’s Diabetes Multidisciplinary Tea... Learn More
Professional
Surgical referral pathway for patients admitted with Acute Diabetic Foot problems
New Surgical referral pathway for patients admitted with Acute Diabetic Foot problems
(17 November ... Learn More
Diabetes Super 7 Specialist Service
Diabetes "Super 7 "Specialist Service Referral Form
(24th March 2015)
For patients requiring secon... Learn More
Diabetes Foot Clinics
Referring Patients for Diabetes Footcare
The Diabetic Foot Clinics are now held at the Leicester G... Learn More
Research Priorities Survey
DUK Survey - can you spare 2 minutes?
13th June 2016
Diabetes UK are surveying the research priori... Learn More
Diabetes and Dementia
Diabetes and Dementia
New Living well with Dementia videos produced by NIHR
The video is translate... Learn More
End of Life Diabetes Care
Palliative Diabetes Care - End of Life Diabetes Care
This End Of Life Care Guidance has recently be... Learn More
News & Events
New In brief
New In brief - April 2016
Eatwell Guide
Public Health England has launched a newEatwell Guidewhich... Learn More
Download the New Leicestershire Diabetes Guidelines 2016
Download the New Leicestershire Diabetes Guidelines Revised September 2016
(30 September 2016)
In 2... Learn More
News & Events
Education Day 2016 Leicestershire Parents Support Group Of Diabetes UK
Education Day 2016 Leicestershire Parents Support Group Of Diabetes UK
(Jan 2016)
LPG are holding ... Learn More
Free BME Diabetes Accredited Course - 15th October 2015
BME Diabetes Accredited Course - 15th October 2015 - reserve now!!
(12th October 2015)
The program... Learn More
All the Latest News
All the Latest Diabetes News and Whats new for diabetes in Leicestershire
May 2015
Diabetes Managem... Learn More
Latest September Leicestershire Medicines Newsletter - includes new advice on liraglutide!
Leicestershire Medicines Newsletter - includes new advice on liraglutide!
October 2015"NEW" Leicest... Learn More
Dulaglutide (Trulicity) - NICE Evidence Summary
Dulaglutide (Trulicity) - NICE Evidence Summary( 2nd July 2015)
NICE has published an evidence sum... Learn More
The Diabetes Times
The Diabetes TimesBringing you the latest news, views and information from the UK diabetes communit... Learn More
What to do When you Have Diabetes and are Ill Booklets
What to do When you Have Diabetes and are Ill Booklets
(27 Feb 2015)The Leicestershire Diabetes Cli... Learn More
Stand Up to Diabetes
Stand Up to Diabetes - Vounteer Today!
(12th February 2015)
Do you want to make a stand against dia... Learn More
Diabetes State of the Nation report
Diabetes state of the nation report
(5th Feb 2015)
Diabetes UK has published State of the Nation r... Learn More
Owen Mumford, Autopen insulin pen injection devices.
Owen Mumford, Autopen insulin pen injection devices - Medical device alert
(January 2015)
The follo... Learn More
New Guidance On Use Of Blood Glucose Monitoring Strips For Leicestershire
New Guidance On Use Of Blood Glucose Monitoring Strips For Leicestershire
(19th July 2013)Studies h... Learn More
Diabetes Management Update: 25th February 2016
The Next Diabetes Management Update: 25th February 2016
The next diabetes update meeting aimed at p... Learn More
Diabetes Research - Visit the Leicester Diabetes Centre Website
Diabetes Research - Visit the Leicester Diabetes Centre Website
(March 2015)For all the Latest Diab... Learn More
Research
About Us
For all the latest on Diabetes Research please visit the new Leicester Diabetes Centre (LDC) websit... Learn More
INTAKE Study
INTAKE Study
1st December 2014
Obesity is associated with several illnesses, including type 2 diab... Learn More
LYDIA Study
LYDIA Study
Impact of Liraglutide on cardiac function and structure in Young adults with Type 2 Di... Learn More
PROPELS
PROPELS – The Promotion Of Physical activity through structured Education with differing Leve... Learn More
Stepwise
STEPWISE – a research study to help reduce weight in people with schizophrenia
(13 October 20... Learn More
Home  |
Site map  |
Feedback   |  Contact Page  |  About our website  |  Disclaimer  |
Copyright © UHL 2011. All rights reserved.
