Blind Children UK | Guide Dogs
Guide Dogs uses cookies to give you a better experience on our websites.
Find out more about cookies
and
how to manage your settings.
If you are happy to accept them, then please continue to browse.
Skip to content
Search
Children and young people’s services (formerly Blind Children UK)
Display preferences: Text size
Normal text size
Large text size
Largest text size
Page Colour
Default colour contrast
High colour contrast
Low colour contrast
Home
Children and young people’s services (formerly Blind Children UK)
In 2013 Blind Children UK became part of the Guide Dogs family. In January 2017, we fully integrated Guide Dogs and Blind Children UK into one charity so that we can build on existing services and support more children with sight loss.
Becoming a single charity means we can provide support for people with sight loss throughout their lives for as long as they need it. The services provided by Guide Dogs (including those formerly provided by Blind Children UK) will not be affected by this change.
Guide Dogs helps children with vision impairments and their families by providing:
practical help and advice
educational support
habilitation (mobility and life skills) training
large-print books through CustomEyes
advice on technology and equipment
family support including early diagnosis support and recreation events for the whole family
partnering some young people with a guide dog
partnering some children with a buddy dog, a well-trained companion dog
To access children and young people's services in your area, you can contact our helpline on 0800 7811444.
If you would like to get involved or find out more about Guide Dogs services for children and young people, please explore our website further
FAQs
Will all the Blind Children UK services continue?
Yes. We provide all of the services previously provided by Blind Children UK under the Guide Dogs name and these will continue to run as they did before.
Will there be changes to the people I deal with?
No. The support you receive will continue with the same contact people, in the same way as before.
Why did this happen in January 2017?
There are a number of reasons why we made this decision. A key factor is that we did not achieved the levels of fundraising needed to independently support Blind Children UK and the planned growth in the services for children and young people and their families.
Why were the two charities integrated into one?
Being a single charity means we can provide support for people with sight loss throughout their lives for as long as they need it. It also allows us to support more children and young people in the future.
We strongly believe that integrating the two charities is the best and most responsible way for us to build on Blind Children UK’s strengths and continue to provide high quality, crucial services for children and young people with sight loss.
Over the past three years Blind Children UK tripled the number of children and families supported, doubled fundraising income and built excellent relationships with commissioners and professionals.
Will CustomEyes books still be available?
Yes. All of the Blind Children UK services will continue to be provided, including CustomEyes books.
I support Blind Children UK through the Sponsor A Future scheme. Will the money I give still be spent on helping children with sight loss?
Yes. Money donated through Sponsor A Future will still be spent on supporting children and young people.
Will this change mean a reduction in the number of guide dogs trained?
No. All of the current Guide Dogs services will continue to run as they do now and we will continue to increase the number of guide dogs trained and provided to people with sight loss.
Get involved
Fundraising
Donate
Volunteering
Find out more >
Find out more >
Find out more >
Sign up for email updates
Subscribe to news updates
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Flickr
Linked In
© The Guide Dogs for the Blind Association 2017.Guide Dogs is a working name of The Guide Dogs for the Blind Association. Registered Office: Hillfields, Burghfield Common, Reading, Berkshire RG7 3YG. A company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (291646) and a charity registered in England and Wales (209617) and Scotland (SC038979) Tel: 0118 983 5555 Email: guidedogs@guidedogs.org.uk Website: www.guidedogs.org.uk
Designed by H2 Creative
Useful information:
Accessibility
Terms and Conditions
Job Board
Website Help /FAQs
Privacy Statement
Site map
Disability charities
Company Giving
Contact us
About Our Cookies
