National Perceptions Forum | The organisation formerly known as the National Voices Forum
National Perceptions Forum
The organisation formerly known as the National Voices Forum
Menu
Skip to content
National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)
Poetry
Section 3 (The Hell of being on a psychiatric ward)
We thank thee O not
As relevant as ever…..
Pie in the Sky
To Willie Emslie
The new mental health act
NPF’s involvement in the Mental Health Act 2007
Compulsion outside hospital
Comment on proposals to lock up people who have not committed a crime
Graphics
Phil Lancaster
Mike Crawford
Gerard MacCarthy
Sophie Jongman
Maureen Oliver
Chris Barchard’s Art Gallery
What we think about the system
A Somewhat Ironic Take on The Context of Psychiatry
An account from the innermost reaches of the system
The politics of evil
At What Cost Leaving Psychiatry Behind? – A Personal View
John Exell on “Recovery”
The Nature of Consciousness
Are psychiatrists honest with their patients?
Is there really an illness schizophrenia?
Robert Dando opposing ECT
Edwin Martin on ECT
Terry Simpson on the non-existence of “Mental Illness”
Personal Stories
We May be Mad but not as Stupid as These People…
Chris Andrew on an old Asylum
Friends
Sue Makevit Coupland
Views on Severe Problems of Living
Some thoughts on the madness of “normality”.
A View of “Schizophrenia” by Someone with the Label
Self-Management and Coping Strategies
Sophie on Self-Management and Community
The Idea of Self-Management
Recovery
Looking towards a better future…..
Treatment
The New Drugs
Psychiatric Hell
Aripiprazole
A Lot of People on Antipsychotic Drugs Would Agree with This
Music
Biff Gladman
Photography
Images by Members
Some thoughts on the context of the Forum
Views on Other Things
Gerry Maccarthy on some “normal”behaviour
Thesis on Perceptions Forum Sue Makevit
The Enslavement of the Sick
Links
National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)
PLEASE NOTE THE MENU SYSTEM IS NOT IDEAL
SOME OF THE MENUS HAVE SUB MENU SYSTEMS
HOLDING THE CURSOR OVER A CATEGORY WILL BRING UP THE TIER BELOW IT
YOU SHOULD ONLY CLICK ON THE LOWEST TIER ON THE TREE
IF YOU CLICK ABOVE THIS YOU WILL GET A BLANK PAGE COMING UP
ON A TOUCHSCREEN YOU MAY BE ABLE TO SEE PAGES BY HOLDING YOUR FINGER ON THE MENU NAME AND CLICKING. HIGHLIGHT TEXT FROM THE DIALOGUE BOX THAT COMES UP WHICH WILL GIVE YOU THE NEXT LEVEL. REPEAT TILL ACTUAL FILES NAMES COME UP THEN CLICK ON ONE TO SEE PAGE
We are a group of survivors/users of psychiatry and manage this site ourselves. There is no management or input as to the content of the site by non-survivors/users. We promote the views of both ourselves and other survivors/users, as well as stories, poetry, music and artwork by them. We also have some work on the site we have chosen from non-survivors/users and this can be found in the section called “Friends”.
The ARCHIVE contains the original site hosted by NPF and which was created by Zyra. It includes similar things to the links at the top of this page and much more. As well as records of the many activities that National Perceptions Forum did in the past there is a huge amount of material and all the internal linking still works. We have copied some of it to the menus on this page but there is so much it would take a very long time to copy all of it.
Archive of Old Site
15 thoughts on “National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)”
Dizzy says:
December 3, 2013 at 12:49 pm
I really like Chris Barchard’s article on why NPF is needed. Well written and very comprehensive!
Reply
Sophie Jongman says:
December 13, 2013 at 8:37 pm
Great to see the website, it is a very important resource for people with mental health problems.
The psychiatric system is in disarray – not that it never was anything but; its just that there are hardly any authentic forums for service users these days.
We need to have a voice, to get together and share our experiences and ideas, mainly because we are still an extremely misunderstood group of people, we are also perhaps a vulnerable group of people but with an awful lot to offer.
Will be following this website keenly.
All the best, Sophie
Reply
Dizzy says:
December 13, 2013 at 10:06 pm
WOW! Love Sophie’s painting Sunset over the Lake. Very atmospheric.
Reply
Caterpilla says:
December 19, 2013 at 9:50 am
Welfare reform – what do you call people who vilify and hit those who cannot fight back? It’s not a difficult question to answer.
Reply
Anna Wachowska says:
June 6, 2014 at 11:00 am
RESEARCH STUDY ADVERTISEMENT
TITLE: To be heard: Qualitative exploration of individuals’ experiences, views and meanings of psychiatric in-patient treatment under section and its impact on the recovery process
INTRODUCTION: You are being invited to take part in the study that is interested in finding out about individuals’ experiences and views of their treatment on a closed psychiatric ward under section. The research aims to gain a better understanding of the impact such psychiatric treatment has on individuals with psychosis and their recovery process through exploring how individuals make sense of themselves, their experience and the world around them.
PURPOSE: Overall, little research has focused on direct experiences of patients on acute psychiatric wards and there appear to be even more need for in-depth studies that would also seek to extract the meaning that in-patient treatment under section has to individuals. The research hopes to enhance knowledge on the subject and fill in gaps in existing research. Its objective is to promote the views of people in mental distress as well as provide guidance and inspiration towards quality improvement of in – patient psychiatric care.
WHO CAN TAKE PART?
Individuals (between age 18 to 65) who might have in the past or might be currently experiencing symptoms of psychosis and who have been in the past treated on the NHS in-patient psychiatric ward (on a non-voluntary basis, under section). It is required that at least six months period must have passed since individuals’ last admission.
PARTICIPATION IS VOLUNTARY: You are free to withdraw at any time without giving any reason.
WHAT DOES THE STUDY INVOLVE? If you volunteer you will be asked about your experiences and views in relation to being on a psychiatric ward. You will be asked to think about yourself and about your relationship to others as related to your experiences on a closed ward. Finally, if you wish you can receive findings of your interview data and have an opportunity to share comments on the interpretation process with the researcher.
CONFIDENTIALITY: All information about you in this study will be kept anonymous and it will be unidentifiable in written or published material. Interviews will be recorded using voice recorder and recordings will be kept in a safe storage system (locked memory).
QUESTIONS? For more details please contact the researcher who is conducting this study – Anna Wachowska who is a trainee counselling psychologist at City University London.
Email: Anna.Wachowska.1@city.ac.uk
COMPLAINS?
If you would like to complain about any aspect of the study, please contact the Secretary to the University’s Senate Research Ethics Committee on 020 7040 3040 or via email: Anna.Ramberg.1@city.ac.uk
Reply
Mike Crawford says:
June 10, 2014 at 7:17 pm
Hi.
I used to submit artwork sometimes to the old Perceptions magazine and I was sorry to see it go.
Didn’t know about this site until just now.
I’ll try to have a read through all the articles.
Hope everyone is keeping well and happy.
Mike x
Reply
Louise Glasscoe says:
October 20, 2014 at 7:05 pm
I am currently Membership Secretary and Treasurer of TheFED – a network of writing and community publishing, entirely run by volunteers with some overseas members, and we are holding our AGM and Festival of Writing, as usual, at Faraday House, Syracuse University’s London site, 48-51 Old Gloucester Street, Holborn, London WC1N 3AE on Saturday 15 November 2014 from 9.30am-6pm. Many members of TheFED were or are part of Survivors’ Groups, such as Stevenage Survivors, Herts, and I am putting feelers out to see if any of you would like to join TheFED, only £5.00 pa for an individual (low income) or £10 pa (higher income) or £15.00 pa (unfunded group) or £25.00 pa (funded group). During the Festival of Writing creative writing workshops are run by volunteers throughout the day and we have bookstalls, a soapbox, celebratory reading event, continuous reading and writing hand for those who struggle to get their ideas down on paper. All refreshments, lunch, information packs, workshops etc are included in the price of £10.00 (for individual members, or members of groups) in advance or £12.00 on the door. Non-members pay £15.00 in advance or £17.00 on the door. Details of our workshops are on the website http://www.thefed.btck.co.uk and also results of our monthly writing challenges. You do not have to be a member to contribute to TheFED monthly writing challenges or to TheFED blogspot etc. In the past I have contributed to Perceptions magazine and I still have many issues of the magazine at home. I am sure many of you would enjoy being part of TheFED. The Festival is a great opportunity to network and meet fellow writers and artists, and we welcome ‘difference’ with gusto. Best wishes to all Louise Glasscoe
Reply
Holly North says:
February 11, 2015 at 2:19 pm
“How individuals make sense of positive voice hearing experiences”
I am a student at London Metropolitan University studying for a professional Doctorate in Counselling Psychology. I am inviting you to participate in research that will be exploring how individuals understand their experiences of positive voice hearing.
Many people have positive experiences of voice hearing
however there is a significant lack of research on this, most research is focused on negative experiences of voice hearing. I wish to learn more about how people relate to positive voice hearing and begin challenging negative and stigmatising discourse that surrounds voice hearing.
If you would like further information please contact Holly on hon0039@my.londonmet.ac.uk.
I would really appreciate any help!
Reply
Caterpilla says:
May 8, 2015 at 7:49 am
The cowards are in who pick on the sick and the poor to line their own pockets. Shame on Britain.
Reply
Caterpilla says:
May 10, 2015 at 8:46 am
When the people are not afraid of death, wherefore frighten them with death?
In chopping wood on behalf of the master carpenter, there are few who escape hurting their own hands instead.
Lao Tzu
Reply
Caterpilla says:
September 9, 2015 at 9:01 am
This government are murdering the sick and disabled through wilful neglect. Nothing could be more sickening or cowardly. It smacks of what Hitler did and the people are going along with it just like in Germany in the 1930s and 40s. They do not occupy the moral high ground – in fact they are corrupt and morally redundant. Who wants to be ruled by such but idiots?
Reply
Ciara says:
March 23, 2016 at 8:33 pm
It’s nearly impossible to find knowledgeable people for this subject, but you seem
like you know what you’re talking about! Thanks
Reply
sarah says:
June 4, 2016 at 7:03 pm
Sorry if I’m being dull – is this site still active – I can’t see a way to register or how to access any ongoing discussions – do those exist? thanks.
Reply
Caterpilla says:
June 4, 2016 at 7:25 pm
Just about. Now your first comment is moderated your next ones will appear immediately.
Reply
Keesha says:
November 7, 2016 at 6:05 pm
Hi, this weekend is pleasant designed for me, for the reason that this moment i am reading
this impressive informative post here at my residence.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
You may use these HTML tags and attributes:
<a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>
Search
Recent Posts
Friends
Recent CommentsKeesha on National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)Caterpilla on National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)sarah on National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)Ciara on National Perceptions Forum (formerly known as National Voices Forum)David Smith on Personal StoriesArchives
November 2013
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Search
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Expound by Konstantin Kovshenin
