Neurological Alliance - Campaigning locally and nationally for better services for people with a neurological condition.
Neural Hub for members
Home
About us
Updates
Real life stories
Campaigning
Join the Alliance
Living with a neurological condition
Directory of organisations
Contact us
Improving neurological services provided in the community
Updates
27th January 2017
House of Lords debate - what progress has the government made in improving neurological services
A House of Lords debate on the progress the government have made in improving neurological services in England takes place next week.
23rd January 2017
NHS England consultation - generic commissioning policies
The Neurological Alliance response to NHS England’s generic commissioning policies consultation.
24th November 2016
2016 Annual Members' Meeting and AGM
2016 Annual Members’ Meeting and AGM
Events
Contact us
The Neurological Alliancec/o Parkinson’s UK
215 Vauxhall Bridge Road
London, SW1V 1EJ
Telephone: 020 7963 3994
Email: contact us
Follow @NeuroAlliance on Twitter
Join us on Facebook
Who are we?
We are the only collective voice for 80 organisations working together to make life better for millions of people in England with a neurological condition.
We work with our member organisations to campaign nationally and locally to ensure better services and outcomes for all those with a neurological condition.
Are you affected by a neurological condition?
Our directory of organisations provides information about organisations which can provide you with information and advice.
Are you working to improve local services?
There are 18 Regional Neurological Alliances. across England comprising of service user and carer volunteers and/or the regional staff of national condition-specific charities, working together to provide a united and authoritative local voice.
Neurological Alliance
Company Limited by Guarantee
Registered in England 2939840
Registered Charity 1039034
