Nystagmus Network
Skip to content
Primary Menu
What is nystagmus?
Nystagmus
Congenital nystagmus
Acquired nystagmus
Treating nystagmus
About us
The team
Open Day
Research
Blog
Newsletter
Newsletter sign up
Annual review
Fundraise
Hold an event
Online fundraising
Wobbly Wednesday
Wobbly Wednesday Event Map 2016
Shop
Documents
Contact Us
Contact
Callback
Become a member
Donate
Search
Search for:
Nystagmus?
Nystagmus is a complex eye condition characterised by involuntary eye movements. The Nystagmus Network is a UK based charity which supports people affected by the condition and leads the research into finding a treatment.
Watch our video
Close
Support the Nystagmus Network
With your help we can make the difference to lots of people who are affected by Nystagmus. Watch out video called “The way we see it” to understand how nystagmus affects people.
DONATE NOW WATCH THE WAY WE SEE IT
Any donation you make to the Nystagmus Network will help us get closer to gaining a deeper understanding of the condition and enable us to explore a variety of different treatment options.
The Nystagmus Network The Nystagmus Network provides a variety of services to its members. This includes distributing information about nystagmus, raising awareness of the condition and supporting the research into a potential treatment.
Information The Nystagmus Network has a range of documents for teachers, parents and adults.
Awareness The Nystagmus Network holds a variety of different events throughout the year.
Research The Nystagmus Network is involved with the research for a treatment for nystagmus.
Help us beat nystagmus
The Nystagmus Network is a registered charity in England and Wales (803440) and we are dedicated to supporting families affected by nystagmus. We rely on the generosity of our supporters to help us continue to provide the services to help our community. You can make a donation to the charity by clicking on the link below.
Donate to the Nystagmus Network
Objective one The Nystagmus Network’s first objective is to help and support the 1 in 1,000 or more people estimated to have poor vision due to nystagmus.
Objective two The second objective is to encourage research with a view to finding treatments and a cure and to improve the everyday lives of those with nystagmus.
Objective three The Nystagmus Network’s final objective is to raise awareness and the understanding of nystagmus so those affected have access to all the services they require.
Donate
Resources
Information booklets
Fundraising information
Latest news
Get Involved
Hold an event
Volunteer for us
Join an event
About us
The team
Our work
Contact us
©						 The Nystagmus Network. All rights reserved
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
Cancel
