Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) – Rare Dementia Support
Home
About us
Support groups
familial Alzheimer’s disease (fAD)
frontotemporal dementia (FTD)
familial frontotemporal dementia (fFTD)
posterior cortical atrophy (PCA)
primary progressive aphasia (PPA)
Fundraising
Contact
Frontotemporal dementia support Home - Frontotemporal dementia (FTD)
Welcome to the Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) support website.
This site aims to provide information and support to people with FTD, and their families, friends and healthcare professionals.
When faced with the diagnosis of a relatively rare disease in a family member or friend, planning a future for carers is hard. There are few facilities tailored for the younger sufferer, particularly for people with FTD, which adds to the distress and burden that this and other similar diseases cause. We put you in touch with people who understand.
This website has pages explaining what FTD is, providing brain images of FTD and to support carers. The group meets several times a year in the United Kingdom and has an annual seminar open to professionals and carers. You might like to read the quarterly newsletters which are an important way of providing information. These are written by carers and professionals and can be mailed in hard copy or accessed through this website.
Caring for people with FTD is hard, there are few facilities tailored for the younger sufferer and those are not always appropriate for people with FTD. Also there are no specific treatments yet for FTD. All this adds to the distress, isolation and burden of caring. The FTD Support Group (FTDSG) tries to decrease the burden by providing information and support. You can download a flyer (pdf) about the FTD support group.
FTD support incorporates:
Behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (including Pick’s Disease)
Primary progressive aphasia, which includes:
1) Progressive non-fluent aphasia
2) Semantic dementia
3) Logopenic aphasia
There is a specific support group for people with primary progressive aphasia.
FTD support works closely with the Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration (AFTD), an American group dedicated to the support of people with FTD and their carers. Please also visit their site at www.theaftd.org  for more information.
Other dementias can also lead to behavioural problems, and whilst we are happy to support people wherever possible, information about those other dementias can be found at the links below:
Alcohol Related Dementia
Lewy Body Dementia (opens the Lewy Body Society website)
Corticobasal Degeneration (opens the PSPA website)
Motor Neurone Disease  (opens the MND Association website)
For jargon free research updates on FTD for all people in the FTD community please visit www.ftdtalk.org.
Please contact us for more information or alternatively, view details of regional support contacts near you.
We gratefully accept donations for both the running of the support group and for FTD related research. Details of how to donate to each of these are available on our ‘Donations, Fundraising and Research Fund‘ page.
FTD MenuFrontotemporal dementia (FTD)
What is FTD?
Introduction to FTD
Behavioural Variant Frontotemporal Dementia (bvFTD) Symptoms
Primary Progressive Aphasia Symptoms
Stressful Behaviour
Swallowing problems
A-Z of FTD Obsessions
Getting a diagnosis
Treatment and support
Genetic testing
Brain imaging
Meetings
London
Regional
Recordings
Newsletters
Sharing stories
Support and advice
Clinical Information
Adapting to Changes in Behaviour
Apathy and how to deal with it
Questions Neuropsychologists Ask (and why they ask them)
From music to molecules
Helpful Information
Driving & Dementia
Planning for the future
Supporting Young People
FTD and Police Contact
Continuing Health Care Funding
Other information
Art & FTD
Books & DVDs
Disclaimer
Donations, Fundraising & FTD Research Fund
Projects & Events of Interest
Links to other organisations
Queen Square, London
Call us: +44 (0)7341 776 317
contact@raredementiasupport.org
Please note that you assume full responsibility and risk when attending support group meetings, and also in the use of the information contained on our website, in our newsletters and at support group meetings.
We are fundraising in order to maintain and extend the support that we provide, and facilitate further access to online resources and information. Rare Dementia Support is a fund held by the National Brain Appeal (Registered Charity Number 290173).
familial Alzheimer’s disease
frontotemporal dementia
familial frontotemporal dementia
posterior cortical atrophy
primary progressive aphasia
© 2017 Rare Dementia Support &dash; All Rights Reserved
