Welcome to The Pink Ladies - Pink Ladies
LOGO ON TO THE CHAT FORUM
Skip to:
site navigation
Welcome to The Pink Ladies
The Pink Ladies was set up in 2001 by several local women who were undergoing treatment for breast cancer and wanted contact with others in a similar position. We called ourselves "The Pink Ladies", drawing on the symbol of the Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign.
We are a member of the Association of Guernsey Charities, membership no. 252.
At whatever point in your diagnosis, treatment or recovery you find yourself, you may be experiencing feelings of fear, shock and isolation.
You may feel that you need someone to talk to about your diagnosis, treatment, or how to talk to your loved ones.
We understand the difficulties you may be experiencing and would like to offer our support and friendship at this or any time in the future.
Visit Barney here - Barneys Travelogue/
Here are some of the ways we can help:
A confidential Helpline
You can speak to one of our volunteers in strictest confidence. The number is 07781 415131. Please leave a message if the number is busy and your call will be returned.
Books and Literature
A library of books on the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer is available in the Breast Unit at the PEH. There are also books on breast reconstruction, physiotherapy, diet and other related topics, as well as a variety of information books and leaflets.
Talking to someone in a similar position
If you would like to talk to someone who has had some personal experience of what you are going through, please ask the Breast Care Nurse to arrange this or contact the Helpline. All members of this support group are able to offer emotional support as well as practical help, information and advice.
Monthly 'Drop In' Evenings
The meetings are very informal. We hope to provide a safe and freindly environment where women at any stage of treatment or recovery can come and find support from other women. The meetings are held at Le Grand Courtil (formerly Longue Rue House), st Martins, and the dates of the meetings can be found on our Support Meetings page of this website, from the Breast Care Nurse or at the Breast Unit.
Newsletters
A quarterly newsletter providing information on the forthcoming events such as talks on conventional or complementary therapy, fund-raising initiatives, interesting press articles or anything felt worthwhile of your attention.
Events
Fun events are organised throughout the year on the idea that laughter is the best medicine. Details of these are in the regular newsletters or on this website in the Events section.
Raising Awareness
Breast cancer is a common disease, as we know. Earlier detection and better treatments mean that more women can survive breast cancer. As a group, we feel it is important to participate in local and national awareness raising initiatives. Participation is strictly voluntary.
Raising Funds
Separate from the regular support group meetings, business meetings are held where those interested plan fund-raising activities. The funds raised are used to improve wherever possible the comfort, care and facilities for local women with breast cancer. Participation in fund-raising is not compulsory.
Welcome
About Us
About Us
Achievements
Support Meetings
Contact
Information
Information
Look Good Feel Better
Shopping Guide
Library
PEH Breast Unit
PEH Breast Unit Information
Links
FAQ's
Personal Experiences
Events & Fundraising
Events & Fundraising
Past Fundraising Events
Royal Court Fashion Show
Past Sunset Walks
News & Scrapbook
News 2017
News 2016
News 2015
News 2014
News 2013
News 2012
News 2011
News 2010
News 2009
News 2008
News 2007
News 2006
Scrapbook 2005
Scrapbook 2003 - 04
Useful Contacts
Donate
Become a friend of the Pink Ladies
Barneys New Website
Members Only
How to become a Member
Special promotions in aid of the Pink Ladies
Personal Experiences
Travel Insurance
Service User Information
Past Events - Pink Ladies Sunset Coastal Walk 2009
Pink Ladies Sunset Coastal Walk 2009 celebrations
Pink Ladies 2011 Sunset Coastal Walk Saturday 18th June
Pink Ladies 2013 Sunset Coastal Walk Saturday 22nd June
Pink Ladies 2015 Sunset Coastal Walk Saturday 20th June
Wellbeing
Pink Ladies 2017 Sunset Coastal Walk Saturday 24th June
Pink Ladies
Website design by Quikpixel
