Positively UK - We can help. We are positive | Providing peer support to people living with HIV for over 25 years.
Our Programmes
Project 100
Recently Diagnosed
Women
Gay & Bisexual Men
Straight Men
Young People
Aged 50+
About Us
About Us
Meet the Team
Publications
Personal Stories
Newsletters
Contact us
Call 020 7713 0444
Donate
Exit
Project 100
Our national programme of peer support
Recently diagnosed?
London workshops for those who have recently been diagnosed
Women
1-to-1, group support, workshops and information for women living with HIV
Gay &BisexualMen
1-to-1, group support, workshops and information for gay & bisexual men
Straight
Men
1-to-1 and group support for straight men living with HIV
YoungPeople
1-to-1 support and workshops with other young people
Aged50+
1-to-1 support and groups with other people aged 50+
About Us
Find out more about Positively UK
Publications
The latest reports by Positively UK and from Realising the Value
Personal
Stories
Real stories from people living with HIV
Romance Starts at Home
Published on Feb 14, 2017
in Women living with HIV
On Valentine’s Day women with HIV share tips for self-love, dating, learning from past relationships and talking about HIV to partners.
Disclosing to partners
Published on Feb 1, 2017
in Dear Jim
Since I started treatment and got to undetectable I’ve felt a lot better about meeting guys and having sex again. But because I know I’m not infectious, I’m not sure whether I need to tell them about my HIV. What do you think?
Telling family and friends about your HIV
Published on Dec 14, 2016
in Dear Jim
Since my diagnosis in the summer, I’ve told one or two close friends but am finding it hard to be more open about my status and haven’t told my family yet. I’m going home to see them at Christmas and would like them to know but am worried how they’ll react. What shall I do?
Maria’s Story
Published on Dec 8, 2016
in Personal Stories - Women
I got HIV while I was in a relationship and I am an example that HIV can actually happen to anyone no matter if you fall in any of the categories or have behaviours considered at risk. When disclosing to different people as much as I found support I also felt many thought that they were not at risk of getting HIV as somehow they felt it only affects people from certain ethnic backgrounds, sexual orientations or those who have promiscuous behaviours.
Becoming Undetectable
Published on Nov 30, 2016
in Dear Jim
I started HIV treatment a few months ago, and my viral load has just become undetectable. I know this is good news and that there is now virtually no risk of passing on the virus, but I still feel anxious about it and how it will affect my sex life and relationships. Can you help?
Read previous posts »
Living with HIV?
Want to talk?
Call: 020 7713 0444
Email: info@positivelyuk.org
We can help.
We are positive.
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Email Address
Tweets by @Positively_UK
Positively UK 2017 | Registered Charity no. 1007685 | A company limited by guarantee, registered in England, no. 242032
