PCD Support
Toggle navigation
JustGiving
Home
What is PCD?
About Us
News and Events
FAQs
How to Help
Social Media
Welcome
Welcome to our website which provides an up to date information service about the condition, how it is diagnosed and how to live with it on a daily basis.  Please look at the video case studies with real life people affected by PCD telling their stories.
Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD) is an inherited, relatively rare condition associated with the abnormality of cilia (microscopic hairs that beat in the airways, sweeping secretions out of the respiratory tract).  PCD may affect the lungs, nose, sinuses, ears and fertility.
The condition involves current infections in the nose, ears, sinuses and lungs. If left untreated can lead to a form of lung damage known as a “bronchiectasis”.
Up to 50% of patients with PCD also have dextrocardia (heart on the right side) and situs inversus (internal organs on opposite side to normal).
The mainstay of treatment is chest physiotherapy and targeted antibiotics enabling individuals to lead normal lives.  Any problems resulting from PCD vary from person to person.
We hope you find the site useful and welcome any comments or suggestions about it.  Contact Us
Latest News
3
Mar
Medicine and Me: Living with Bronchiectasis 16th June 2017
Please join us on the 16th June 2017 at 12.30 at the Royal Society of Medicine to learn more about bronchiectasis. This meeting is free for patients, family members and carers to attend. The Medicine and Me series of meetings aim to update us all on important medical conditions and gives a direct voice to
23
Feb
Welsh Rare Disease Day Reception 2017
Background to the day Rare Disease Day Wales has become an important highlight of my calendar and this year’s event was no exception. In February each year Rare Disease UK organize receptions across Britain to highlight the importance of Rare Diseases to health professionals, politicians and patients alike. Rare Disease Day is officially celebrated on
20
Feb
Scottish PCD Day 13th May 2017
We are holding our first ever PCD Day in Scotland on Saturday, 13th May 2017 at the Venue Studios, 67 Hope Street, Glasgow G2 6AE from 10.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. This is an opportunity to learn more about PCD and meet other families affected by the condition. We hold a number of talks throughout
More news ...
©PCD Family Support Group 2017
Charity No. 104 9943
Privacy Policy and Disclaimer
Donate
Newsletters
Contact Us
Cookies
