Action on Pre-eclampsia - Supporting familes affected by Pre-eclampsia
HOME
ABOUT US
History of APEC
Our Staff & Trustees
APEC Trustees News
Annual Reports & Accounts
Latest news
Past newsletters
PUBLIC INFORMATION
What is pre-eclampsia?
Questions & answers
Support from APEC
Case studies and stories
Leaflets and information sheets
FOR PROFESSIONALS
PRECOG guidelines
NICE guidelines
Study days
Midwives e-learning
Cradle VSA Blood Pressure Monitor
Understanding pre-eclampsia: A guide for parents and midwives
SUPPORT US
How to donate
Become a member
Virgin Money London Marathon
Request a fundraising pack
Sponsored events
Easy fundraising ideas
Remember us in your will
SHOP
CONTACT
Supporting families
affected by Pre-eclampsia.
We’re a national charity who campaigns and lobbies for funds, research and education to support those affected by Pre-eclampsia.
Read more
Understanding pre-eclampsia: A guide for parents and midwives
APEC is proud to be the sole UK stockist of Understanding Pre-eclampsia,  a new publication that covers everything parents and midwives need to know about pre-eclampsia, from causes to long term consequences to the often profound emotional fallout.
FIND OUT MORE
What is pre-eclampsia?
Pre-eclampsia is the most common of the serious complications of pregnancy. It is caused by a defect in the placenta, which joins the mother and baby and supplies the baby with nutrients and oxygen from the mother’s blood. Read more →
How you can support APEC
APEC have London Marathon 2018 places if you would like to run for us! The London Marathon is APEC’s biggest fundraising event of the year and ensures that we can continue to educate healthcare professionals and offer our support to those families affected by pre-eclampsia. Read more →
Cradle VSA Blood Pressure Monitor now available through APEC
The world’s first medical device to detect shock and high blood pressure in pregnant women could cut maternal deaths in developing countries by up to 25%, saving more than 70,000 lives a year.
ORDER ONLINE
Call our Action on Pre-eclampsia helpline on 0208 427 4217
Every 6 minutes a woman dies as a result of pre-eclampsia.
For over 20 years, our helpline, online social media and email services have supported thousands of women throughout the UK and the world. Our education programme for midwives continues to offer vital specialist training and we continue to have world leaders in the field as speakers.
Find out more
Latest news from APEC
February 10, 2017Published by
APECAdmin at
February 10, 2017Categories
UncategorizedMATERNAL DEATHS IN THE UK; PRE-ECLAMPSIA DEATHS ARE AVOIDABLE SAYS COMMENT IN THE LANCET  Pregnancy in the UK has never been safer conclude authors of a comment piece published in The Lancet this week.* Prof Andrew Shennan and Prof […]Do you like it?0 Read moreJanuary 20, 2017Published by
APECAdmin at
January 20, 2017Categories
UncategorizedAPEC Founders publish new book: Understanding pre-eclampsia: A guide for parents and midwivesIn 1992 APEC founders Professor Chris Redman and Isabel Walker co-wrote the ground-breaking book Pre-eclampsia: The Facts. Published by Oxford University Press just months before the […]Do you like it?0 Read moreDecember 7, 2016Published by
APECAdmin at
December 7, 2016Categories
UncategorizedOne in a Million – UK Death rate from Pre-eclampsia falls to all time low.Action on Pre-eclampsia has welcomed the record fall in the death rate from Pre-eclampsia to less than 1 in a million pregnancies in the United Kingdom […]Do you like it?0 Read more
Read more news
© 2016 Action on Pre-eclampsia - Registered charity number 1013557 / Privacy Policy
