The SMA Trust - Spinal Muscular Atrophy Research in the UK
Menu
Skip to content
Home
THE SMA TRUST
About SMA
Resources
SMA Trust Shop
Contact Us
Search for:
Donate
Get Involved
Research
News
Help us to find a cure for this progressive, muscle-wasting condition which affects 1 in every 6,000 births. Exciting research progress means the first drugs are now in clinical trials, with others in the pipeline. We are the only UK charity solely dedicated to funding SMA research.
DONATE NOW
Our mission is to find a cure and treatments for Spinal Muscular Atrophy. Our research strategy is led by some of the world’s leading medical and scientific experts on SMA and our research programme is funded entirely by voluntary donations. Find out about our research activities…
Find out how you can help, whether it’s testing your physical limits, coming to one of our events or organising your own.  You could also help by volunteering your skills or helping us to raise awareness of Spinal Muscular Atrophy in your area. Find out how you can Get Involved
This collaborative UK initiative for SMA research is the first of its kind for SMA & launches this month. It has come about because of impressive recent progress, leading to an ever-increasing need for research collaboration.  The consortium will consist of world-class research/clinical experts in Oxford, Edinburgh, London & Sheffield Universities. Find out more…
LATEST NEWS
Announcing The SMA Trust challenge events 2017
Roche provides community update on RG7916 for SMA
SPINRAZA/NUSINERSEN UPDATES
About Spinraza / nusinersen
Nusinersen EAP in the UK: Letter to Jeremy Hunt 7/2/16
Statement from The SMA Trust: Spinraza – a milestone but not the end game
The campaign to bring Spinraza to the UK
Biogen update on nusinersen EAP for SMA Type 1 in the UK
WHY SUPPORT THE SMA TRUST?
Knowing that The SMA Trust is actively funding and driving research is both a comfort and a necessity. A cure for this devastating disease is clearly the ultimate goal but in the meantime, any research which leads to enhanced quality of life for anyone suffering from SMA must be supported, as any parent who has lost a child to SMA will understand.
- Hannah Razzell
SMA Type I, 19 December 2011 – 21 September 2012
UK SMA Research Consortium
The SMA Trust is funding a £1.3m UK SMA Research Consortium for SMA in the UK over the next 3 years. Announced in Sept 2015, it has come about because of impressive recent progress, leading to an ever-increasing need for research collaboration. The consortium will consist of world-class research/clinical experts based in Oxford, Edinburgh, London and Sheffield Universities. The intention is to form an initial nucleus that will, in time, draw together other leading UK scientists.
The consortium is being funded by donations and proceeds of the Muscle Power fundraising campaign which was launched in 2014.
LIKE US ON
FOLLOW US ON
WATCH US ON
FIND US ON
SUBSCRIBE
Email info@smatrust.org
Phone 01789 801155
The SMA Trust, 1c Atherstone Barns, Atherstone-on-Stour,
Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, CV37 8NE
Registered Charity No: 1097765
© 2014 SMA Trust. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
