Swine flu cases rise as schools open
TheFamilyGP Selected health sites
Home
News
Encyclopaedia
About
Contact
HEALTH ZONES
Fertility and pregnancyBabies and childrenYoung peopleWomen's healthMen's health50+ healthHealthy livingQuit smokingWeight lossFirst aidSexual healthAllergies and hay feverTravel healthMental wellbeing
HEALTH TOOLS
BMI Calculator
Fertility Calculator
RSS Feed
Babies and children * Healthy living
Swine flu cases rise as schools open
Is this the second wave?
Swine flu cases have started to rise in England, coinciding with children going back to school, latest figures show.
Last week, an estimated 5,000 people were infected with the virus compared with 3,000 the week before. Most of the new cases occurred in children of school age.
This is the first increase in new cases since schools closed for the summer holidays at the end July.
Sir Liam Donaldson, Chief Medical Officer for England, said: " We don't know whether this is the start of the next big wave that we were expecting this autumn but it is certainly something that's giving us concern."
"It will probably be a week or two before we see whether this increase is sustained."
The number of people visiting their doctor with flu-like illness also increased throughout the country, from 8.9 to 12.9 consultations per 100,000 people. The biggest increase was seen in the 5 to 14 age group.
A similar pattern has also been reported in Scotland where the schools started back earlier. Outbreaks of swine flu have also been seen in at least six schools in Scotland and eight in England.
The number of people admitted to hospital in England also increased slightly to 143, with 23 seriously ill. The highest hospitalisation rates continued to be in children under the age of 5. The number of deaths in the UK due to the H1N1/2009 virus now stands at 79.
The Agency also reported that most illness caused by the virus continues to be mild, but can be severe in a minority of cases.
For the first time in the UK , H1N1 virus resisitant to the drug oseltamivir (Tamiflu) has been isolated from two people infected with swine flu.
This article was published on Fri 18 September 2009
Image © CDC C. S. Goldsmith and A. Balish
Related Stories
Swine flu pandemic level raised from phase 4 to phase 5: pandemic imminent
Five confirmed cases in the UK, government stockpiles antivirals and antibiotics
UK swine flu update May 1st 2009
Eight confirmed cases in the UK, first human to human transmission within the UK
People shamed into hand washing
Most men don't soap!
Drug kills cough droplets
Eliminates disease carrying particles
Single sneeze can fill room with flu virus for hours
Viral particles remain suspended in the air
Use this story
Flu (influenza)
Link to this page
Printer friendly version
Share this page
Share
Featured video
Editor's picks
People taking risks with food safety
Cannabis health risks underestimated
Watchdog recommends Botox jabs for chronic migraine
Lupus: difficult to diagnose
Britain facing a 'tsunami of pain'
One in six cancers caused by infections
Deaf Awareness Week: 'Look At Me'
Jogging increases life expectancy
Prostate cancer cases top 40,000
Tropicana kids orange juice recall
Garlic compound 'fights food poisoning bacteria'
One in three asthmatics at high risk of a fatal attack
Cancer in teenagers diagnosed late
One in four women plan not to use sun creams on holiday
Bullied children more likely to self-harm
Headache wrongly diagnosed by some doctors
Daily aspirin cuts bowel cancer deaths
What's causing you to snore?
Why eating ice cream gives you brain freeze
Men will outlive women
New 5p and 10p coins could cause dermatitis
Eye cell transplant restores sight in mice
Scientists discover 10 new breast cancer subtypes
Water during exams may help to boost grades
'Healthy drinks' sugar warning
This site and its contents ©2006-2010 TheFamilyGP.com.
DISCLAIMER: The contents of this site are for information purposes only and do not constitute medical advice. Please consult a qualified health practitioner.
