Tymes Trust
Registered Charity 1080985
Tymes Trust is the longest established national UK service for children
and young people with ME and their families. It is a respected national
charity whose entire professional team give their time free of charge.
They work constantly with doctors, teachers and other specialists,
and played a major role in producing the children’s section of the
Dept of Health Report on CFS/ME (2002).
Lord Clement-Jones CBE
Founder Patron
You are welcome to redistribute or reprint
documents from this website without seeking our permission provided:
1) you do not abbreviate, add to, or change the text in any way; 2)
the authorship information is retained; and 3) www.tymestrust.org is
credited as the source.
to Trust Alerts Emails
ME - The Truth about Exercise and Therapy
by Jane Colby FRSA, Guardian Letters
Follow our Executive Director Jane Colby on Twitter @JaneCColby
POST-A-POSTER CAMPAIGN
NO, YOU DON'T KNOW BEST
/  DON'T MAKE ME FAIL AT SCHOOL
PLEASE DON'T WAKE ME UP
/  ME IS JUST FATIGUE, RIGHT? WRONG
STOP DAMAGING EXERCISE TREATMENT FOR CHILDREN WITH ME
Recognition of our work and messages of support for the children.
The T Rex In The Roomand
Paediatric ME, CFS, SEID For Families And GPs
Our 2016 leaflet and Jane Colby's speech given at the House of Lords to introduce it. Are there risks with graded exercise therapy?
NICE Guidance and education.
Printed copies free for a limited period.
Supporting the cause.
Includes a full list of the charity's services.
Information booklets and magazines.
Reports, guides and other information about ME.
Get full access to our services.
Any questions?
By credit card, debit card or Paypal.
Jane Colby's new book. Free pages & Stripeysocks blog.
Young Hearts is a collection
of inspirational poetry by over 40 children and young people with ME aged
7 to 26. Foreword by Terry Waite CBE. All profits will be used for the
Trust's services. This book was originally the dream of Tymes member Jade
Louise Scarrott who was so tragically taken from us in a road accident
at the age of 14. She wanted to raise awareness and understanding of ME
in children. A review was recently published
by Special Children magazine.
To commemorate Jade Louise Scarrott we present the ITV Central News feature
on childhood ME (broadband version - 11.4MB)
(dialup version - 1.05MB) which
was prompted by the publication of Young Hearts. Includes interviews with
Jade's mother Karen and Jane Colby. If you have problems viewing Windows
Media files, download this version - 2.75MB.
This web site has been chosen by the Wellcome Trust for national archiving
Tymes Trust
PO Box 4347
Stock
Ingatestone
CM4 9TE
