Home - Vulval Pain Society
Providing information to women who suffer from vulval pain, and their partners
-->
Skip to content
Jump to main navigation and login
Nav view search
Navigation
Search
Search...
You are here: Home
HomeAbout usVulval pain conditionsTreatmentsBSSVD vulvodynia guidelinesAdvice and self-helpFinding a vulval clinicFurther helpSupport groupsVPS HandbookVPS meetings and workshopsVPS WebinarsResearchVulvodynia: personal experiencesNewsPodcastsGuides, leaflets and resources
Donate to the VPSRaise funds for the VPSNewsletter subscriptionShare VPS articles on social mediaVPS Butterfly PendantContact usAccessibility options
Visit us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to RSS feed
Welcome to the Vulval Pain Society, a UK registered charity supporting vulval pain sufferers.
Our aims are:
To promote and protect the physical and mental health of sufferers of vulval pain through the provision of support, education and practical advice
To advance the education of the general public in all areas relating to vulval pain
We offer advice and information on all vulval pain matters. You can read detailed information about vulvodynia, vestibulodynia (previously known as vulval vestibulitis), lichen sclerosus, and other vulval pain conditions. We also have information on sex and vulval pain, pregnancy and vulval pain, and other general good advice.
Find out more about us.
Podcast and transcript now available for 'Airing Pain' programme on vulvodynia
If you missed the recent Airing Pain radio programme on vulvodynia, you can now access the audio podcast from the Pain Concern website. Pain Concern's thirty-minute programme features Dr Winston de Mello, Dr David Nunns and Dr Rebekah Shallcross talking about vulvodynia.
A transcript of the programme is available on the VPS website if this is more convenient.
For more information on the programme and the interviewees, click on the 'Read more' link below.
Read more: Podcast and transcript now available for 'Airing Pain' programme on vulvodynia
NEW - Finding a vulval clinic page
If you're looking for a vulval clinic in the UK, you can now access the link from our main menu at Finding a vulval clinic.
New Facebook group for male partners of vulvodynia sufferers
Partners of Vulvodynia is a new Facebook group for men whose partners suffer from vulval pain. They say 'This group has been set up for men whose partners are suffering from vulvodynia. It's important that we offer support and help raise awareness around this rare condition'.
To join the group, sign up with Facebook if you need to, then just follow the above link to the group page and follow the instructions on the page.
New vulval pain support group on Facebook
Pudendal Neuralgia and Vulvodynia UK have asked us to post a link to a transitional Facebook group which allows ladies to join their full secret Facebook group once the administrator of the group has had contact with them. As the official group's members want it to remain secret, we can't provide details here, but if you follow the above link to the group and (if necessary) sign up with Facebook, you can contact the administrator for details on how to join the group itself.
NEW - Transcript and references now available for VPS Podcast 4 - Physiotherapy treatment for vulval pain
You can now read the transcript for VPS Podcast 4, which is Women's Health physiotherapist Helen Forth's podcast on physiotherapy for vulval pain, at Transcript of VPS Podcast 4 - Physiotherapy treatment for vulval pain: a presentation given by Helen Forth.
We've also posted a full list of the references Helen uses in her presentation at References for VPS Podcast 4 - Physiotherapy for vulval pain: a presentation given by Helen Forth. The original video presentation itself and MP3 audio recording are of course still available on our Listen and watch page.
The Vulval Pain Society Handbook (4th edition)
The VPS publishes its own detailed handbook covering most aspects of vulval pain, including strategies for treatment and management. Aimed at both patients and clinicians, the book includes chapters written by healthcare professionals with a specialist interest in vulval pain, plus some patient perspectives.
Read more: The Vulval Pain Society Handbook (4th edition)
Page 1 of 6
StartPrev123456NextEnd
Site map |
Legal disclaimer |
Privacy Policy |
Entire site contents © 2017 The VPS. Registered Charity No: 1118118
