Alopecia UK Online :: Alopecia Areata, Alopecia Universalis and Alopecia Totalis
News
Media
About us
Talk to others with alopecia
Our discussion forum provides a place for people to share their
experiences of
alopecia. You can read the forum postings without logging in but you
will need to register to begin posting. Go to the
forum now
Find your local support groupAround the UK, people with alopecia have set up support groups, a great way to exchange experiences and support.Find one near you.
Directory of products
and services
Need a wig, headwear or
something else? Our
suppliers' directory is packed
with services for people with
alopecia in your area.
eBay storeBuy alopecia awareness wristbands, T-shirts, badges, key rings and more from our eBay store.
Become an AUK memberReceive our newsletter and keep up to date
with the latest from the charity, research, people's experiences, useful tips
and much more. It is free but we welcome donations to cover the costs
involved. Find out more about membership.
News
PhD Study into teenage experience of alopecia seeks participants
A PhD student from the University of Huddersfield is looking for participants for a study looking at the ... More
AUK Celebrates New Story Booklet with World Book Day Competition
Alopecia UK is giving away 50 free copies of its new story booklets, 'Ben's First Day' via a World Book ... More
Please consider supporting Alopecia UK during Lent
We are hoping some of our supporters will give a coin a day during the period of Lent to raise a few ... More
See more news items
Follow @Alopecia_UK
Instagram
Support us while you shop online with
Alopecia UK is a registered charity number 1111304
All content is © Alopecia UK 2017
Site by Jellymould Creative with C4 Multimedia
Generously supported by the British Association of Dermatologists
Contact us |
Membership |
Suppliers directory |
Privacy |
Accessibility |
Terms & Conditions
Alopecia UK is a registered charity number 1111304 and Scottish registered charity SCO44702
All content is © Alopecia UK 2017
Site by Jellymould Creative with C4 Multimedia
