Resources for Aphasics. Aphasia Treatment Advice, Aphasia Therapy and Aphasia Software
Aphasia Now
People with Aphasia helping each other to become independent, communicate with other Aphasic people and overcome Aphasia together
HomeAbout UsWhat is AphasiaNewsAphasia RecoveryResourcesHelp Aphasia Now
Site Map
Register
Login
Privacy and Cookies
Disclaimers
Welcome to AphasiaNow
A social initiative by and for people living with Aphasia
.
At AphasiaNow we provide long term help and support for people with Aphasia in the South West of England and nationally through our website and social media.This help includes hosting activities such as support groups, workshops, outings and therapies.
These give our members and their partners support within the community, with the aim to increase confidence and provide an arena to learn new skills.
Support group sessions are chaired by Jenny Dautlich, a retired public health doctor and stroke survivor, and lead by volunteers, people with aphasia, as well as professional therapists.
What is Aphasia?
Living with Loss of Language
Aphasia is a communication disorder that robs you of the ability to communicate.
Aphasia explained
Watch our Aphasia video with interviews by Professor Chris Code
Do you live in Gloucestershire?
Our support group meets in Tuffley, near Gloucester (GL4 )
Winter term 9 January - 3 April
.
> more about our support groupMap
Aphasia Information
Quick links
> Aphasia Prognosis and Therapy> Aphasia through the eyes of a carer> Aphasia Software & apps finder> Top tips for Aphasia friendlier communication> Books about Aphasia & Stroke> Our Therapists & Volunteers in Gloucestershire> Alternative Aphasia Therapies> Aphasia links: UK & International
A Stroke of Genius
On-line art gallery by people with aphasia
> visit our Gallery
Join the conversation
Blog, Facebook, Forum, Twitter, YouTube
> Facebook> Blog: online journal of people's thoughts > Forum: keep the discussion going> Twitter> Aphasia Video
If you found this page useful please consider making a donation. Aphasia Now rely on generous donations to provide this information to our visitors:
Home About us What is Aphasia News Aphasia Recovery Resources Help Aphasia Now Contact us
^ top
Facebook.
Twitter
© Aphasia Now. Contact: online form web: www.aphasianow.org
