ARC UK | Association for Real Change
ARC UK Home
Contact us
News
Events
ARC Blogs
Disclosure Service
Room Hire
ARC UK
Association for Real Change
About ARC
Our Work
Services
Active Support Practice Development Service
Disclosure Service
Information Service
Qualifications and Training Services
WDF Funding
Networking
Representation
The Care Provider Alliance
Projects
History
Strategic Aims
Who’s who at ARC?
Meet the Board of Trustees
Trustee Board Meetings and AGMs
Join ARC
Benefits of joining Association for Real Change
ARC Members
Training and Qualifications
Training Courses
Active Support
Qualifications and Training
DBS
Workforce Development Funding
Publications
Jobs
Add your job listings
News
Real People Newsletter
ARC Blogs
Archived Real People
Resources
Resources
Consultations
Closed Consultations
Briefings and Meetings
RSS Feed
Prev
Next
Vacancies: Development Officers (Assessors and Quality Assurers)
ARC England are looking for qualified Assessors or Quality Assurers on a self-employed basis.
ARC England Training Calendar March 2017
Use your remaining Training budget and book your places on our short courses this January to March 2017.
ARC England are pleased to be partnering with Naidex for their show at the NEC, Birmingham 28-30 March 2017. REGISTER FOR FREE TICKETS ONLINE AT WWW.NAIDEX.CO.UK
Workforce Development Funding 2016/2017
If you are an Adult Social Care employer in England, find out more about Workforce Development Funding available to help towards funding qualifications for your staff.
People with Learning Disabilities and the Criminal Justice System Guide
Download your free guide for family carers and learning disability services.
Helping Each Other: Sexual Exploitation project Training Materials
Download the free resources from ARC’s Helping Each Other project.
ARC Disclosure Service
Employers – No initial or annual registration fees. No commitment on the number of checks, just pay for the Disclosures you request.
Latest – Access NI moves to online checks!
Latest News
Makaton for Professionals Workshop; 15th and 16th June, Birmingham
Posted on March 9, 2017 | No Comments
We are excited to collaborate with Course Beetle to offer the Makaton for Professionals workshop; 15th & 16th June, Birmingham
Continue Reading...
Paying the Price
Posted on March 8, 2017 | No Comments
Blog by Lisa Lenton, ARC England Director
Continue Reading...
Be Bold for Change – a blog by Holly Dagnall – Director, NCHA Care and Support
Posted on March 8, 2017 | No Comments
I’ve just written a whole blog on change, but am I doing enough to change the workplace to make it a more gender inclusive one?
Continue Reading...
International Women’s Day, 8th March 2017 – sharing good news stories
Posted on March 8, 2017 | No Comments
The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is Women in the Changing World of Work planet 50:50 by 2030.
Continue Reading...
Under Lock and Key: Response from ARC England
Posted on March 2, 2017 | No Comments
ARC
England's response to Under Lock and Key, on Channel 4 Dispatches, 1 March 2017.
Continue Reading...
Naidex 2017 – Disability and Independent Living Event
Posted on March 2, 2017 | No Comments
Naidex is thrilled to be partnered with the Association for Real Change for their 2017 event.
Continue Reading...
Real Change for People with a Learning Disability
0October 19, 2014ARC’s Vision
Real change that puts people with learning disabilities at the centre of decision-making, and in the heart of their communities. Download the ARC UK Strategic Vision 2016-2020
0September 29, 2014ARC’s Values
We believe that people with learning disabilities: should be listened to, respected and treated equitably should be fully included in all decisions that affect them should be involved in the […]
0October 18, 2013ARC’s Mission
The Association for Real Change is a membership organisation supporting anyone who is involved in the planning or delivery of support or services for people with a learning disability. Our […]
0October 17, 2013ARC’s Strategic Aims
ARC’s Strategic Aims 1.  Support and develop We will support and develop the continual improvement of practice to help individuals and organisations to reach their potential. 2.  Connect and Liaise […]
What we do
0July 13, 2014ARC Disclosure Service
ARC offer an online service for DBS and AccessNI checks and a paper-based service for Scotland’s PVG Scheme, supporting employers throughout the UK to carry out criminal record checks.
0July 13, 2011Training Services, Qualifications and Publications
Providing training packages and qualifications relevant to the learning disability and health and social care sectors.
0July 13, 2011Information Service
Providing information to members in a variety of ways including e-newsletters.
0July 13, 2011Consultancy
Training products and services tailor-made to meet your individual organisational needs.
Older Entries
Welcome to Association for Real Change Association for Real Change is a leading umbrella body representing service providers in the learning disability sector – our purpose is to improve the quality of life for people who have a learning disability by supporting anyone who is involved in the planning or delivery of support and services.
We provide a range of services such as high quality information, networking opportunities, learning disability training, qualifications, publications, and Disclosure checks.
Association for Real Change is committed to promoting best practice within the learning disability sector and we work with others such as the Department of Health, Skills for Care, Big Lottery Fund and Comic Relief through a range of projects.
Association for Real Change works in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Tweets by ARCEngland
tweets
News
Makaton for Professionals Workshop; 15th and 16th June, Birmingham
Paying the Price
Be Bold for Change – a blog by Holly Dagnall – Director, NCHA Care and Support
Resources
Life Path Trust’s Values Based Recruitment Guidance
Hft’s 2017 Holiday Information Guide
VODG Social Value Toolkit
Here I Am – a report by Mencap
UKHCA Report – The Homecare Deficit, 2016
ARC Projects
Helping Each Other: Sexual Exploitation project Training Materials
19 May 2016 12:50 PM |
No Comments
Download the free resources from ARC's Helping Each Other project.
Read More
Speak up for Autism project
07 April 2016 11:26 AM |
No Comments
ARC England has just completed a joint project, funded by Skills for Care's Workforce Development Innovation Fund (WDIF), with the 'Speak up for Autism' group.
Read More
People with learning disabilities in the Criminal Justice System Guidance
08 March 2016 9:38 AM |
No Comments
ARC's Lottery funded 'People with Learning Disabilities in the Criminal Justice System' guide will be launched at a free event in Launceston, Cornwall on 26 April 2016.
Booking essential.
Read More
Creating an Ordinary Life – Active Support Project
12 May 2015 6:34 PM |
No Comments
Three year personalisation project to help providers embed a person-centred approach in the support provided to people with learning disabilities and behaviour which challenges services.
Read More
Helping Each Other
02 March 2015 12:38 PM |
No Comments
Three year project supporting a small number of young people with learning disabilities. The Devon ‘Helping Each Other’ teams would like to invite you to their end of project celebration event in March 2016.
Read More
Here to Stay
30 January 2014 5:34 PM |
No Comments
Increasing our knowledge of people with a learning disability from new migrant communities in England.
Read More
Tweet
ARC Offices:ARC Cymru (Wales)
ARC Northern Ireland
ARC Scotland
Our WorkARC Publications
ARC Training Services
Active Support
Quick LinksJoin ARC Now!
News
Privacy Policy
More ARC Sites:Disclosure Service
Giving us a Voice
Here to Stay
Personal Assistants’ Network
Real Change Challenges
Safety Net
About Arras WordPress Theme
© The Association for Real Change (ARC) All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy
Association for Real Change Registered Office: ARC House, Marsden Street, Chesterfield, Derbyshire S40 1JY
Registered Charity No. 285575 Scottish Charity No. SC039129 Registered in England Company No. 01658354
