Boots UK - Welcome to Boots UK
Boots UK
Close
About Boots UK
About Boots
Our stores
Boots in numbers
Only at Boots
Omnichannel
Healthcare at Boots
Pharmacy
Boots Opticians
Boots Hearingcare
BootsWebMD.com
Company Information
Boots in Nottingham
Boots Heritage
Walgreens Boots Alliance
Contact us
Our Stories
Corporate social responsibility
Suppliers
Careers
Innovation
Overview
Innovation needs
Submission requirements
How to submit
Media Centre
The UK's leading pharmacy-led health and beauty retailer
Latest News: Boots UK Raises an Incredible £1.5 million for BBC Children in Need
We inspire our customers and patients to feel in control of their health
We aim to make a sustainable difference every day
Championing everyone’s right to feel good.
Boots is the UK’s leading pharmacy-led health and beauty retailer. With over 2,500* stores in the UK, ranging from local community pharmacies to large destination health and beauty stores, our purpose is to help our customers look and feel better than they ever thought possible. Boots UK is part of the Retail Pharmacy International Division of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc, the first global pharmacy-led health and wellbeing enterprise.
Our mission is:
To be the first choice for pharmacy, health and beauty - caring for people, customers and communities everywhere
Our Stories
See our latest news releases and stories from across our business.
Walgreens Boots Alliance launches 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
27 February 2017
Boots UK is Voted a Consumer Superbrand 2017
01 March 2017
It’s Opening Day for Our Store at Leeds Bradford Airport
27 February 2017
Boots UK Corporate Social Responsibility
Our approach, activities and performance
Heritage
From the humble beginnings of Boots, key figures have had the vision to push boundaries and seek new solutions. Today it's this same spirit that powers our business, helping us make a real difference.
xx
Shop online
Order online at boots.com by 8pm and collect free from 12pm tomorrow at a store near you**
xx
Facebook
Boots UK
Twitter
Tweets by @BootsUK
Useful resources
Boots Jobs
Search jobs and apply
Store Locator
Find your nearest store
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
2016 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
*Figures as of 31 August 2016 excluding equity method investments **Place an order online or in store before 8pm, for free collection in store after 12pm the next day, exclusions apply. The service is available Monday-Saturday in over 2,300 stores, excluding the Scottish Highlands/Islands, Jersey/Guernsey and Northern Ireland Stores. See the store locator on boots.com for your local store opening hours. See boots.com for details.
Boots UK is a member of Walgreens Boots Alliance
© The Boots Company PLC
Accessibility
Legal
Cookies
Sitemap
Contact Us
Our Sites
Twitter
YouTube
Facebook
Boots Sites
Shop Online
Boots Jobs
Boots Opticians
Boots CSR
Group Sites
Walgreens Boots Alliance
