BASL
0845 521 0272
+44 (0)1543 442154
+44 (0)121 355 2420
admin@basl.org.uk
BASL Member Login
Toggle navigation
About
Join BASL
News
Events
Education & Trainees
Research
Sponsorship
Clinical Services & Resources
Links & Patient Info
Contact
The British Association for the Study of the Liver is a multi-disciplinary society with around 900 members composed of interested individuals from clinical medicine, clinical and basic research and allied professions.
The British Association for the Study of the Liver is dedicated to advancing knowledge and understanding of the biology and pathology of the liver for the optimal care of patients.
The British Association for the Study of the Liver aims to disseminate research findings and clinical expertise, to promote opportunities for collaboration in liver research, to provide a voice that can advise and interact with the media and advises policymakers.
The British Association for the Study of the Liver incorporates the Nurse Forum, the British Viral Hepatitis Group and the British Liver Transplant Group.
Membership covers BASL and all of its special interest groups; BASLNF, BVHG and BLTG.
Your Annual subscription is used to organise the Annual Meeting held each September and the subscription rate you pay is determined by your job status.
PBC Foundation ‘three peaks challenge’ - a similar event will follow BASL 2017 and we hope that BASL members will take part next year.
MPs meet Nottingham Hepatologists as part of an Alcohol Health Alliance initiative
Ed Miliband meets Caroline Flint and the team at Doncaster Royal Infirmary as part of an Alcohol Health Alliance initiative.
Find out more
Find out more about the work of our committee sub-groups and forums by clicking the logos below. These include The British Viral Hepatitis Group, British Association for the Study of the Liver Nurse Forum and the British Liver Transplant Group.
The British Viral Hepatitis aims to improve the management and study of patients with chronic viral liver disease, bringing together UK hepatologists, gastroenterologists, infectious disease physicians, virologists and interested epidemiologists.
British Association for the Study of the Liver Nurse Forum is a professional nursing organisation aiming to develop knowledge and understanding of liver disease, in order to improve the quality of patient care.
The BLTG (British Liver Transplant Group) was launched in 2014 to represent the professional interests of liver transplantation in the UK and promote strategic and academic development.
Tweets
Tweets by BASL
Join BASL
Join BASL
BASL is a multi-disciplinary society with around 900 members composed of interested individuals from clinical medicine, clinical and basic research and allied professions. Your Annual subscription is used to organise the Annual Meeting held each September.
Members of BASL receive the following benefits:
discounted registration rates for the annual meeting and other relevant meetings
eligibility for the BASL Travel Awards (for members below status of Senior Lecturer or Consultant to allow presentation of high-quality UK liver research at International meetings, including the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease)
eligibility for the prestigious Dame Sheila Sherlock Award (to an emerging researcher in the field of liver disease, for members below status of Senior Lecturer or consultant). Applications are usually submitted to the BASL Committee three months prior to the annual meeting - details are announced.
Click here to find out more about joining us.
News
10/03/17 ACCEA 2017 Round Open - BASL support deadline 31 March 2017
more
News Type: BASL News
The Advisory Committee on Clinical Excellence Awards (ACCEA) opened the 2017 awards round on Tuesday 28th February. The final closing date for applications to the ACCEA is 17:00 on Tuesday 25th April 2017.
Application for BASL supportBASL will need to complete the process of selecting applicants who will receive our support shortly. If you would like to apply for BASL support please complete and submit Application Form A to BASL along with any other supplementary CVQs available as detailed below:
Form A – Application FormForm D – Supplementary CV Questionnaire: Research & Innovation AssessmentForm E – Supplementary CV Questionnaire: Teaching & Training AssessmentForm F – Supplementary CV Questionnaire: Leadership & Management Assessment
In addition BASL also requires a short piece with your application on why you feel you should be supported by BASL.The deadline for applying for BASL support is 17:00 on Friday 31st March 2017. All applications have to go through the ACCEA on line system, however downloadable forms to send to BASL can be found on the ACCEA website by clicking > here.Please be aware that there is a maximum number of supplementary forms that can be completed at each National Level: Bronze and Silver applicants: 1 and Gold applicants: 2. These forms are optional and it is for the applicant to decide whether using them will increase chances of success.(For use of the Supplementary Forms, please see 'Domains' within the Application form A). Full application guidance can be found on the ACCEA website by clicking > here. EligibilityAs in previous years BASL would be able to support colleagues directly by nomination for national Gold, Silver and Bronze awards. As a specialist society, BASL cannot make nominations for Platinum awards; this must be done through the applicant’s University/Research Body and Universities UK. BASL can however provide a citation to support an application for a Platinum award.As a rule, candidates for National Bronze (Level 9) should have a minimum of at least five local Clinical Excellence Awards. Award holders applying for higher level awards or a renewal must specify which achievements have been made after the date of their last award or renewal particularly concentrating on current activities and activities in the last 4 or 5 years, therefore you must date activities.To apply for BASL support, please follow these steps:1. Send a completed application form along with a short piece as to why you feel you should be supported to the BASL Secretariat, Judy.Hawksworth@execbs.com  by 17:00 on Friday 31st March 2017 for review. Please understand that in fairness to all applicants, late submissions will not be considered.
2. All applicants will be asked to provide the name of an individual who could write a supporting citation upon submitting their application to BASL. ACCEA regard the citations provided in support of individuals as giving added value to the process.
3. You must submit your own application to ACCEA online by their deadline 17:00 on Tuesday 25th April. This is your own responsibility.4. If you are in receipt of BASL support then BASL will upload your citation - please can you ensure your application is uploaded at least one week before the ACCEA deadline - before 17:00 on Tuesday 18th April 2017, so that we have sufficient time to upload your citations onto your application on the ACCEA website.
09/03/17 NOW OPEN! Core-BSPGHAN Grant Round 2017 Deadline May 1st 2017
more
News Type: BASL News
Core and BSPGHAN are co-funding a scheme to provide financial support for the collection of pilot or proof-of-concept data that will enable a high-quality competitive application to be made subsequently to a research council or other large funder.
Applications are invited from established investigators planning research studies on any topic within paediatric gastroenterology, hepatology and nutrition. We aim to fund 2 projects with a maximum budget of £35,000 per project and particularly welcome applications in nutrition, obesity and the microbiome.
Further details and the application form can be found > here.
09/03/17 Professor Thomas E Starzl:
Liver Transplant Pioneer and Distinguished University Professor of the School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh (1926-2017)
more
News Type: Transplant News
Professor Thomas E Starzl, who passed away last weekend a few days short of his 91st birthday, is universally regarded as the father of liver transplantation and intestinal transplantation. His career defining work as young liver transplant surgeon in Denver, Colorado comprised exhaustive laboratory and human clinical endeavours to overcome the technical, physiological, preservation and immunological barriers that had daunted liver transplantation during an era of hopelessness for the entire field. He moved from Denver to Pittsburgh, setting up what was to develop into the largest liver and intestinal transplant programme in the world in the early 1990s. He converted what was considered an experimental procedure into a standard low risk operation that is currently performed around 25,000 times a year worldwide.
The first and second generation liver transplant surgeons around the world have almost all learnt their skills working with Professor Starzl. His protégés went on to lead a multitude of the worlds’ liver transplant programmes. The other area where Professor Starzl played a pioneering role was in the complex field of intestinal and multivisceral transplantation, where he introduced the use of Tacrolimus and Campath, to overcome the major barriers of rejection and infection. Professor Starzl remains the most published, most read and most cited transplant researcher in the history of this challenging field, with almost 2500 peer reviewed publications. He held innumerable honours and given hundreds of distinguished orations/lectures worldwide. Of the five books he wrote, The Puzzle People published in 1996, narrates stories on the incredible and brave lives of transplant patients, and their impact on the doctors looking after them.
His work in the areas of organ preservation, host graft interactions, microchimerism, immunosuppression and tolerance were truly groundbreaking, much of which has contributed to the safe and routine practice of organ transplantation, and his work remains one of the main reasons why transplantation became one of the most successful health care development stories of the 20th Century.
Despite these incredible achievements, Professor Starzl remained a humble, resolute, much respected and tireless researcher well into his 90s. His only concern remained the wellbeing of his patients and his entire life was devoted to findings ways to overcome the challenges in delivering these complex treatments for their benefit.
An example of his ongoing contribution was the transmitted lecture on the challenges facing intestinal transplantation at the 14th World Small Bowel Transplant symposium in Buenos Aires, Argentina in June 2015. He trained several generations of surgeons, physicians, researchers and ethicists. Even for clinicians who never met or trained with him, he remained a source of guiding inspiration, and countless transplant surgeons around the world have been directly influenced by his achievements, for which they will always be grateful.
To follow is a copy of a report from Pittsburgh that shows how amazing Professor Starzl was with an incredible output for a very long duration of time;  Download Starzl_Thomas_PS_00_2016-02-04_1437_24449.pdf
08/03/17 Research - Role of primary care in PBC management: Clinician perspectives needed
more
News Type: BASL News
The University of Birmingham and NIHR Birmingham Liver BRU in conjunction with UK-PBC are conducting research into perspectives of patients, GPs and specialists around PBC care and potential future changes including an increased role for primary care.
We are looking for gastroenterologists and hepatologists in the West Midlands area to take part in qualitative interviews around the role of stratification.
Please see the advert to follow for further details;  Download Physician advert.pdf
Or contact the study team led by Gideon Hirschfield for more details contact Dr Margaret Corrigan (Clinical research fellow, NIHR Liver Biomedical Research Unit) at m.corrigan@bham.ac.uk.
08/03/17 Alcohol Health Alliance comment on the budget
more
News Type: BASL News
Responding to the Chancellor’s budget today, Professor Sir Ian Gilmore, Chair of the Alcohol Health Alliance, said: “Whilst we would have liked to see the Chancellor increase duty on the cheapest alcohol today, we are encouraged to see that the government will be consulting on introducing a new duty band for high-strength ciders, which would mean these ciders are taxed at a higher rate. “At the moment, it is possible to buy a three-litre bottle of 7.5% ABV cider, containing the equivalent amount of alcohol as 22 shots of vodka, for just £3.50. As a result of these low prices, these drinks are a favourite among children and vulnerable groups like the homeless. “High-strength cider currently receives the lowest duty per unit of any alcohol product, and the government clearly recognises the need to address the anomalies in the tax system which mean that these ciders can be taxed at such low rates. Dealing with these anomalies in the tax system would target those most in need, and would move the tax system towards a more sensible scheme where the stronger alcohol is, the more highly it is taxed. “By taxing these drinks more strongly, the government will also encourage producers to lower the alcohol content in the drinks.”
The AHA is a group of 50 organisations including the Royal College of Physicians, Royal College of GPs, British Medical Association, Alcohol Concern and the Institute of Alcohol Studies. The AHA works together to:
- Highlight the rising levels of alcohol-related health harm- Propose evidence-based solutions to reduce this harm- Influence decision makers to take positive action to address the damage caused by alcohol misuse
For further information, contact Matt Chorley, Policy and Communications Officer, Alcohol Health Alliance, at matt.chorley@rcplondon.ac.uk or 0203 075 1726.
23/02/17 "Little convincing evidence" of economic benefits from alcohol sales
more
News Type: BASL News
Report casts doubts on economic rationale for cuts to alcohol taxes.
A new report from the Institute of Alcohol Studies, Splitting the Bill: Alcohol's Impact on the UK Economy, argues that the economic benefits of the alcohol industry are overstated, undermining the economic case for cutting alcohol duty in next month's Budget. The report draws on government and trade statistics, academic evidence and economic theory to challenge arguments that the health and social benefits of reducing alcohol consumption are likely to come at a cost to the economy, finding:
Any reduction in employment and income resulting from lower spending on alcohol would be offset by spending on other goods
Econometric analysis of US states suggests that a 10% decrease in alcohol consumption is associated with a 0.4% increase in per capita income growth
Lower alcohol consumption could also reduce the economic costs of impaired workplace productivity, alcohol-related sickness, unemployment and premature death, which are estimated to cost the UK £8-11 billion a year.
The analysis comes at a timely moment, with health groups urging the Chancellor to raise alcohol duty in next month's Budget. Earlier this month, the Alcohol Health Alliance called for higher tax on high strength ciders and the reintroduction of the duty escalator, which ensured that alcohol taxes rose above inflation each year. Public Health England also recently identified raising duty as one of the most cost-effective ways to reduce alcohol-related harm.
The report's author, Aveek Bhattacharya, Policy Analyst at the Institute of Alcohol Studies said:"Economic arguments are regularly used to resist policies that tackle excessive alcohol consumption, such as raising duty. Yet raising the price of alcohol is more likely to benefit the economy than harm it, by reducing the productivity costs associated with workers' harmful alcohol consumption."  "Cuts to alcohol duty impose a heavy toll on our health service and our public finances, with no clear corresponding benefit to the economy. The Government should reverse course, and undo the damage of four successive years of falling tax on alcohol duty."
Splitting the Bill: Alcohol's Impact on the UK Economy is available for download from the Institute of Alcohol Studies website > here.
07/02/17 Two new hepatitis C therapies fast-tracked in Europe
more
News Type: BASL News
PM Live is reporting that two new drug combinations for Hepatitis C are being fast-tracked for approval by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
Read the article > here.
06/02/17 Developing national data standards for recording alcohol and tobacco use - participate in the survey here
more
News Type: BASL News
The University of Birmingham and Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, with support from the RCP HIU, are developing national data standards for recording alcohol and tobacco use in electronic patient records. Recording alcohol and tobacco use in health records is essential for identifying patients at high risk of future harm and for providing effective interventions.
The views of patients, carers, healthcare professionals, researchers, and clinical information system suppliers are currently being sought through two online surveys (one on alcohol and one on smoking) to inform the development of the proposed data standards to ensure that they are appropriate, acceptable, and implementable across the NHS. Your views are important: • To complete the alcohol survey please click > here• To complete the tobacco survey please click > here Closing date: 5pm, 17 February 2017
Events
23/03/17 - 24/03/17 3rd Nottingham Postgraduate Course for the Gastroenterology Specialty Certificate Examination
more
News Type: BASL Endorsed Events
BASL are endorsing the 3rd Nottingham Postgraduate Course for the Gastroenterology Specialty Certificate Examination.
This year the course takes place on 23rd-24th March at the Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham.
For more information and how to book a place on the course click > HERE.
30/03/17 HCC-UK 2017 - A FOCUS ON TREATMENT
more
News Type: BASL Endorsed Events
The HCC-UK meeting in 2017 takes place on Thursday 30th March at Hilton Newcastle/Gateshead.
HCC-UK comprises professionals of multidisciplines interested in improving outcomes for the increasing numbers of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
The meeting will focus on:
• an update of surgical treatments for early stage disease• locoregional and medical therapies for those with more advanced disease• current best practice clinical management across early and more advanced stage disease.
Case presentations, within a multidisciplinary environment, will play a key part of all sessions.
This meeting is accredited for 6 hours CPD and should appeal to all members of multidisciplinary teams, as well as trainees in gastroenterology and hepatology.
To view the programme and to find out how to register click > HERE.
31/03/17 - 01/04/17 HBP Surgery Week 2017 & the 46th Annual Congress of the Korean Association of HBP Surgery - Jeju, Korea
more
News Type: Other Events
The HBP Surgery Week 2017 & the 46th Annual Congress of the Korean Association of HBP Surgery is taking place on 31st March - 1st April at ICC JEJU, Jeju, Korea. The congress is hosted by The Korean Association of HBP Surgery and the official language is English.
The Korean Association of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreas Surgery (KAHBPS) was founded 20 years ago in 1996. During the short period of time since its establishment, KAHBPS has become an important international association through the annual congresses and international symposiums it has held to provide a platform to communicate about its clinical experience and knowledge with other professionals in the field of HBP surgery in the world.
Important Dates:
Deadline for Abstract Submission: February 12 (Sun), 2017
Abstract Acceptance Notice: February 28 (Tue), 2017
Deadline for Pre-registration: March 11 (Sat), 2017
More information about the meeting can be found on the website > here.
10/04/17 - 12/04/17 23rd APASL Single Topic Conference in Nagasaki, Japan 2017
more
News Type: Other Events
APASL is one of the leading associations based on investigation and treatment of liver diseases that upholds the standards and profession, research and create improved treatment methods for millions of liver patients particularly in the entire Asia Pacific Region.
Meeting Venue: Hotel Okura JR Huis Ten Bosch Nagasaki, Japan
For more information please visit the APASL STC 2017 Nagasaki website > HERE.
Important dates can be found below:
January 31, 2017 - Abstracts - now closed
February 14, 2017 - Early Bird Registration Deadline
March 10, 2017 - Pre-Registration will Close
19/04/17 - 23/04/17 European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) Annual Meeting - Amsterdam
more
News Type: Other Events
The International Liver Congress™ 2017 (ILC 2017) is the 52nd annual meeting of the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL), the Home of Hepatology.
Join the international liver community at the RAI Congress Centre, Amsterdam,The Netherlands from 19 to 23 April 2017.
In the digital communication era, ILC 2017 still provides a unique opportunity for clinicians and scientists from all over the world to meet not only to discuss clinical innovation and research challenges but also to interact socially, network and develop future collaborations. Although EASL is a professional medical organisation based in Europe, ILC has attracted over the past years, an increasing number of participants from 120 countries thanks to an exciting programme mixing state-of the art education and cutting edge science.
Registration and Abstract submissions are now open. For further information about the meeting click > HERE.
Early Registration Fees end 31 December 2016.
24/04/17 Pregnancy and Liver Disease: Research Development Meeting - London
more
News Type: BASL Endorsed Events
The Pregnancy and Liver Disease: Research Development Meeting is taking place in the Courtyard Suite at BMA House, Tavistock Square, Londom WC1H 9JP.
View the agenda here >
Download Pregnancy and liver disease research meeting 24.4.17.pdf
Registration is Free and the meeting is open to anyone interested in research into maternal liver disease.
To register please email Rachel Westbrook - Rachel.westbrook@nhs.net .
28/04/17 - 29/04/17
BASL -
BLTG School of Transplantation Meeting - Birmingham - BOOK YOUR PLACE
more
News Type: BASL Events
Following the very successful meeting of the School of Transplantation at the BASL & BLTG Annual meeting in September 2016 booking is now open for the 2017 event which is taking place from Friday 28th - Saturday 29th April.
The BASL / BLTG School of Transplantation offers an excellent platform for trainees in liver transplantation with lectures delivered by carefully selected leading speakers from the UK. This year’s meeting is a standalone event on the beautiful Edgbaston Campus, University of Birmingham.
Over the 2 days topics covered include assessment of patients with substance misuse, pathology update, long term management of liver transplantation, infections, paediatric/transition care and a surgical workshop. There are ample opportunities for interaction with case presentations and group discussions.
The meeting is FREE to BASL members and early booking is advisable to avoid disappointment as the meeting is restricted to 40 places. The meeting is a Friday/Saturday residential event and non-members are welcome at a cost of £125 which includes:
Bed and breakfast accommodation for Friday night.
Lunch on both days and dinner on Friday night.
Download a copy of the draft programme here >  Download BASL Transplant School 2017_Programme.pdf
To reserve your place click > here.
We would like to thank our sponsors for their support:Complete Supporter - Norgine
Should you have any questions please contact Kim Girling at kim@basl.org.uk or telephone 01543 442154.
29/04/17 - 30/04/17 Hepatology Ultrasound Course - Royal Free, London - 5 places still available
more
News Type: BASL Endorsed Events
The Hepatology Ultrasound Course takes place on 29 - 30 April 2017 at The Atrium at the Royal Free Hospital Pond Street NW3 4AG.
The course is endorsed by: EASL, BASL, BMUS, Global Health and has received approval for 12 CPD credits.
Book now to avoid disappointment - there are only 5 places available.
Brief outline of the course: 2 days intensive course in clinical ultrasound applied to hepatology.Attendees will benefit from hands-on training to complement the essential theory sessions. Both theory and practical sessions will be held in the Atrium at the Royal Free Hospital. Participants will have the opportunity to be guided by internationally recognised experts in clinical ultrasound. The lectures will range from basic medical ultrasound to the assessment of chronic liver disease, vascular and biliary pathology to the latest advances such as contrast enhanced ultrasound and tissue elastography. On the first day practical sessions will be carried out on healthy subjects to familiarise with normal anatomy and on the second day attendees will have the opportunity to focus on different real cases of liver pathology as well as use transient and shear wave elastography.
EDUCATIONAL ENDPOINTS:
To review and further understand the clinical approach to non- invasive assessment of liver disease
To learn how to use an ultrasound machine in the context of different clinical scenarios of patients with liver disease
To develop an integrated approach to clinical management in order to improve patient care
To discover a potential new area of interest in clinical research.
SPEAKERS:All speakers are recognized experts in the field of ultrasound and hepatology.
Dr Matteo Rosselli (UCL-RFH - London UK))Dr Dominic Yu (RFH - London UK)Prof Adrian Lim (Imperial College - London UK)Dr Davide Roccarina (RFH - London UK)Professor Sporea (University of Timisoara - Romania)Dr Ivica Grgurevic (University of Zagreb - Croatia)
View the programme here;  Download Hepatology Ultrasound Course Programme.pdf
For further information please contact the course administrator - Miss Lynn Knight at l.knight@ucl.ac.uk .
Director and organizer of the course is Dr Matteo Rosselli - m.rosselli@ucl.ac.uk .
To register please click > HERE and then click on the APPLY button.
Announcements
Join BASL Ward Membership Today - £100 per annum for up to 5 members per ward.
Benefits include; access to Nurse e-learning toolkits, reduced fees at BASL Events including the Nurses Day at the Annual Meeting.
To find out how to apply click here
Click here to view the BASL Events Newsletter - February 2017.
Click here to view the BASL Newsletter - March 2017.
Click here to view the infohep.org Newsletter - January 2017.
Click here to view the Alcohol Health Alliance Newsletter - February 2017.
Learning Toolkits
The BASL Nurse Toolkits were developed following conversations with nurse specialists. These and a later email survey identified training needs to help nurses meet the liver nurse competencies. To access the Learning Toolkits sign in as a BASL Member and click on Manage Account
Quick Links
BASL is connected to a number of national initiaives that you might be interested in.
0845 521 0272
+44 (0)1543 442154
+44 (0)121 355 2420
admin@basl.org.uk
BASL Member Login
© 2017 BASL - British Association for the Study of the Liver
Design and development of the BASL web site including all incorporated web applications by
