Go Wild on Wight: Biodiversity on the Isle of Wight
Sorry, your browser does not support script. You will find a menu at the bottom of this page.
Welcome to Wild on WightThe Island's biodiversity website
Biodiversity News
News here.
What is biodiversity?
Biodiversity is wildlife - the variety of life and its processes; including
animals, plants, humans and all living things, the differences among them,
the communities and ecosystems in which they occur, and the ecological and
evolutionary processes that keep them functioning, yet ever changing and
adapting.
Why is wildlife important?
Understanding biodiversity is in our self-interest
as it affects us all. Biological diversity provides us with life-sustaining
systems such as clean air, productive oceans, fresh water and fertile soil,
without which we would not be able to support ourselves.
Why
is the wildlife of the Isle of Wight special?
The Isle of Wight is a microcosm
of south-east England and has, size for size, its fair share of the habitats
characteristic of the region. In fact, it is unusually rich in species and
habitats compared to similar areas on the mainland. The chalk grasslands, the
maritime cliffs and slopes, and the estuaries are important on a national and
international scale.
The mere fact that it is an island located off the south
coast has consequences for the wildlife as well as for the human population.
There are fewer introduced species such as grey squirrels, deer or mink; and
there are stable populations of native animals which have become rare on the
mainland, such as red squirrels, dormice, bats and water voles. The mild climate
and maritime situation provide a foothold for species such as the Glanville
fritillary butterfly, on the northern edge of their European range.
Highlights
A revision of the Isle of Wight Ancient Woodland Inventory - in 2014 a complete review of the Island's ancient woodland was undertaken, and the results are now available to download.
Monitoring for Biodiversity 2020 on the Island - an overview of the state of bilogical monitoring fon the Isle of Wight, and a review of priorities.
The Isle of Wight Local Records Centre
is a
partnership-led biological records centre and has been established with the
principal aim of bringing together information on the Island’s wildlife, to make
it available to all those who need it. Find out more>>
Sites of Importance for Nature Conservation (SINCs) review.
The Biodiversity Partnership undertakes an annual review of the series of wildlife sites on the Island. Three supporting documents have been produced which can be accessed via the Local Records Centre section of this website.
| home | partnership | habitats | species | biodiversity opportunity areas
| benefits of biodiversity
|
biodiversity & you | advice | news| walks & events | library | contact |
