Welcome to Caerhays Estate - Caerhays Estate
☎ 01872 501310
Menu
News
Burncoose teams up with Harrod Horticultural
Harrod Horticultural manufacture a wide range of plant supports which make an eye-catching addition to your garden.
Three RHS recommended lectures you don't want to miss
Two lectures to be held on the Caerhays Estate and one at Burncoose House, Redruth.
Click for more news & events...
History and beauty on the Cornish Coast
It is difficult not to be stunned when you visit Caerhays Castle and its 140 acre Gardens which are the home of the Williams family.
The natural beauty of the coastline and its steep valleys, the architectural surprises, the inescapable sense of history and the range of activities and facilities that the estate offers, all set the scene for a wonderful day of discovery and exploration.
The gardens originated from the work of plant hunters in China at the start of the 20th century.  Caerhays bred the very first x williamsii camellias and is today the home of a Plant Heritage National Collection of Magnolias containing over 600 species and named hybrids from around the world.  The gardens have an international reputation and have been described as 'world class'.
The castle itself was designed by the famous Regency architect John Nash around 200 years ago and both the building and the two families who have lived and worked at Caerhays have played significant roles in the history of Cornwall and its former tin mining industry.
You can visit the castle and gardens, walk in the grounds and visit the stunning beaches and coastal paths which make up the estate.
This is a renowned shooting estate, a popular wedding venue as well as often being used for filming, as a photographic location and for corporate hospitality.
Enjoy the tranquility, beauty and history of the whole estate for a day, or for longer if you choose to stay awhile in the restored Georgian splendour of The Vean or in one of the estate’s many holiday cottages.
Caerhays Estate | Gorran | St Austell | PL26 6LY
✉ enquiries@caerhays.co.uk
☎ 01872 501310
Website Navigation
Home
Directions
Visitor Info & Opening Times
Gardens & Estate
Holiday Cottages
The Vean
Burncoose | House
Weddings
Hire Caerhays
Caerhays Garden Diary
Events & News
Burncoose Nurseries
Contact Us
Caerhays Estate
Gorran
St Austell
PL26 6LY
01872 501310
Part of the Caerhays Estate
Return to Top of Page
