Cleveland Naturalists' Field Club
Dave Barlow © Cleveland Naturalists’ Field Club. 9th September 2016
Home
Information
Gallery
Proceedings of the Club
Links
Field Club meetings
Wildlife of the area
Welcome to the Cleveland Naturalists' Field Club
The Cleveland Naturalists' Field Club is probably one of the oldest clubs in the
Teesside area. It was founded in April 1881, the name of Cleveland Naturalists' Field
Club has been used since 1886. The United Kingdom has a long history of these local
natural history groups and they provide the backbone of knowledge for local and national
surveys of the flora and fauna of Britain.
The web site expands the information given on the Club membership card. Prospective
members who read these pages are invited to join us on a few walks and find out something
about the Club.
The Club seeks to promote an interest in all branches of Natural History and to assist
members in finding out about the living things that they see in the countryside around
them. The present membership includes those who have particular interests in birds,
insects, slugs and snails, lichens, fungi, flowering plants and mosses and liverworts.
Members with interests in other fields would be very welcome.
Fox portrait taken at RSPB Saltholme
Capillary Thread-moss  (Bryum capillare)
Garden Spider (Areneus diadematus)
In spring and summer there are evening, half-day and whole-day visits to investigate
the natural history of a particular area. During the winter months there is a series
of monthly meetings that are held at present at the Nunthorpe Institute in Middlesbrough.
A meeting usually takes the form of a lecture given by a club member or visiting
speaker.
Full details of the walks and their starting points can be found from the links at
the top of the page. If you require further details about a walk, or in the event
of inclement weather and possible cancellation, please contact the leader of the
walk. Please carry suitable refreshment with you! This will be necessary for the
walks that start on a morning and it may well be appropriate to take tea on an afternoon
walk.
ELGEE MEMORIAL LECTURE
An annual lecture series in memory of Frank Elgee,
former Curator of the Dorman Museum.
This year’s lecture is arranged by
the Cleveland Naturalists’ Field Club.
Saturday, December 3rd, 2016
at the Dorman Museum in Middlesbrough
doors open at 09:30
the lecture is from 10:30 to 11:30
Nature and Industry on the Tees –
Wildlife Where you Least Expect it
by
Dr Robert Woods
Executive Director of INCA
(Industry Nature Conservation Association)
This lecture is open to the public and all are welcome.
Cleveland Nats members are particularly welcome.
We hope that you will find some of the outings to your taste from the programme (see
link). Any suggestions for future field trips are always welcomed by the committee.
It is hoped that members will share transport, where possible, to ease any parking
problems and be prepared to offer lifts to members without cars.
The club welcomes any prospective members to join our outings. The members are friendly
and helpful if you have problems identifying plants, insects, birds etc.
The annual subscription for membership of the club is only £8.
New The 2016-2017 winter  programme is available from here and also is the latest
data about the North and South Gares project
Entomology of the Cleveland area
Birdwatching in the Cleveland area
Wildlife in Teesside
Flora of the Teesside area
North & South Gare project
