London 2012 Wire | Top MLM Earner Tells All
Skip to content
London 2012 Wire
Top MLM Earner Tells All
Primary Menu
How to get leads outside of warm market for your MLM?
Posted on September 7, 2015 by london
Today I want to talk about the prospecting processing of a MLM.
This is inevitably the question that comes to mind after you decide which MLM to go with, like comparing top companies AdvoCare vs. Avon
And Vemma is out for the count anyway
Most MLM companies I’ve looked into are insufficient in the prospecting process, such as AdvoCare and Avon and others
They teach people to make a list of family and friends and then try to sell to those people because you already have established trust with them.
But how could this approach back fire?
For one, not all of your warm market is truly looking for what you are offering…
Such was the case for myself, can you imagine trying to pitch health supplements to a family that’s not interested in that kind of stuff at all or ever? We are talking about people that never had a gym membership, let alone drank a protein shake. The warm market list is extremely difficult and imo fighting an uphill battle for the most part.
For me the best way to get ideal leads for your MLM business is to actually get targeted leads, this is accomplished by blogging or other online marketing where you create various properties that rank in google that goes after certain keywords.
For example if you are building an AdvoCare business, you can try ranking for search terms like “How to build advocare business in Seattle” or “distributors in Seattle”.
Now there’s few reason I made it pretty specific like that, first of all, when you try to rank for “advocare” that is going to be close to impossible because its too generic and the first page of Google is already dominated by long standing businesses that has filled out the first page.
This is why by going more specific you can begin ranking and banking, much easier. You will get less search results but over time if you were to even get 1 good quality lead per month, that will turn into pretty big sum of change as you rank more keywords in more places.
This is how top earners separate themselves from their competition by ranking things in Google and therefore they get targetted traffic which are people that are already interested in the business, and these people come wandering to your site with your links and the best part about it is, that it can happen while you sleep and take naps.
Your online properties continue to go to work for you while you sleep, eat and drink.
It is what allows you to get leveraged income because once you rank a property it almost always certainly stays up there in the top rankings and it will continue to generate revenue for you. So studying SEO and ranking a powerful blog centered around your MLM can be the most powerful thing you can do, I know in AdvoCare there is site called Computer Knacks that caught my attention because this site is ranking in all kinds of keywords and the blogger isn’t even selling AdvoCare it looks like. His site: computerknacks.com
But according to my tools, its getting decent bit of traffic. So really its smart marketing, its capitalizing on the #1 most important marketing space that actually matter and that’s being ranked #1-3 online on Google search result for great keywords that your audience / ideal market could be searching for.
And this is how I was also begin getting ahead of the competition and make a blog few years back that was getting 30,000 hits per month.
I can say that persistence is the most important thing.
-Hope this helps
Posted in advocare
Leave a comment
VEMMA KICKED IN THE ARSE!
Posted on September 5, 2015September 5, 2015 by london
Recently the famous MLM company Vemma was knocked out of the industry by the FTC, but why?
It was deemed as illegal pyramid scheme, but many people get confused by this, aren’t all MLM companies in some way shape or form a pyramid scheme?
What makes MLM companies like Vemma any different than say AdvoCare?
you see what makes a MLM company a MLM and not pyramid scheme which is illegal is that at the end of the day if the company is generating revenue by providing true value to the end user than it is considered a legal distribution channel.
For example a company like AdvoCare actually sells their supplements to people even when people invest $3000 up front to become an Advisor so they can get paid 5 ways, they are purchasing $3000 worth of products so there is an actual exchange of products.
When the company takes a turn to the dark side is when they sell the business opportunity only and no real tangible product or service is exchanged to the end user, rather it is false promise of a business opportunity in which most people fail.
So the company reaps revenue from duping people, with a model that counts on people duping more people, therefore the company is not providing any value to customers ever.
This is why AdvoCare stresses the importance of the fact that they are product oriented company and they are big on supporting and promoting their products through paid endorsers like Drew Brees and Rich Froning who is a recent addition to their already impressive line of famous athletes that endorse AdvoCare, my personal favorite is Carly Lloyd who scored the hat-trick in this years women’s world cup.
Shame on Vemma and countless other MLM where they got too greedy for their own good, instead of focusing on product development like they should such as Tesla’s Elon Musk stresses in his speeches, people should focus more on the end product rather than 100% about marketing and turning dollars.
I think all things naturally fall into place when you actually have a sound product or service that you offer. There will always be monetary value in return for that kind of service that offer true value to people.
We will never know if Vemma really had the intentions of duping people to begin, but one thing is for certain it has stirred a small uproar in the MLM community where people are questioning the legitimacy of their own MLM companies.
Its a fine line, does the company actually turn revenue and profits by actually providing products to people or does it make its true profits by recruiting people in the business opportunity in which 95% of the people that join fail.
And then the question looms, is that failure rate actually the responsibility of the company or is just that most people are too lazy and the blame should really be placed on the individuals not the company?
–Follow the blog for more revealing insights about MLM’s like Vemma and AdvoCare
Posted in vemma
Leave a comment
Avon vs. AdvoCare, Which MLM to JOIN?
Posted on September 3, 2015 by london
Which MLM to join what’s the difference?
Lets first take a look at Avon’s compensation plan, because you want to know how to get paid in AVON and how does their pay system work?
MLM’s stand for multi-level marketing companies
In Avon its pretty cheap to get started.
Avon is a 125 year old company and some claim its the best of the best direct selling company in the world, AdvoCare on the other hand was started in 1992 so Avon is wayyyy older than all other MLM companies out there.
Its a 10 billion dollar company and they have over 5 million reps and still growing by the day.
They have single and multi compensation pay plan, so here’s how it starts.
In Avon you start off as representative, this is like other MLM companies, like a ladder system, you gotta start off somewhere right? but as you make more sales, you commission begins to go up.
In AVON this is exactly how it goes…
You start off at 20% commission and then you can go all the way up to 50% commission, this is for your straight direct sales revenue.
When you recruit people you also get to earn from their efforts so you got the incentive to recruit more and more people, that is the nature of all MLM’s.
First goal might be to get to 50% commission, you can get there by selling 78 Avon products which is roughly $700 to $800 worth of products, people with a lot of influence have higher chances of succeeding.
People that have lots of followers on instagram or twitter, or people with lots of facebook friends may get tons of referrals just by posting about their journey with MLM.
Most people want to find ways to make extra money, and so its law of numbers game, where the more people you tell about your opportunity the higher your chances of building a team below you that can generate pretty good money for you.
Some of the pros of picking a well established company like AVON that’s been around for over a century is that you know they are pretty stable and they will be around for a while. The last thing you wanna do is to work tirelessly for a company for years to build a large team and then that company gets attacked by the FTC and get shut down and you just lost all your income over night, like what happened to VEMMA
Its such a shame really.
Think of all the people that lost their pay check and now scrambling to find another means to pay to bills.
When you join company like AVON they are still definitely but the competition might be tougher because you are dealing with the issue of over saturation, when a company is so big, the more people join the tougher it becomes for new comers to succeed. Maybe in your local market, everyone has already been shown about AVON by another representative and you’re the 3rd guy approaching them.
So you want to find the fine balance between stable company that’s been around for a little bit versus company that has been around too long.
This is when pulling up secondary sources of data can be helpful like what is the flow of successful representative in the company?
Is the rate increasing each year or decreasing?
For AdvoCare interestingly their number of big time distributors are increasing and it seems that the company is building momentum as it reaches billion dollar mark recently and still rising.
AVON or AdvoCare its a close call, we will soon take a look at some success stories of both companies to see which one can suit you best.
Thank you
London2012wire
Posted in avon
Leave a comment
Search for:
Recent Posts
How to get leads outside of warm market for your MLM?
VEMMA KICKED IN THE ARSE!
Avon vs. AdvoCare, Which MLM to JOIN?
Recent CommentsArchives
September 2015
Categories
advocare
avon
vemma
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Proudly powered by WordPress
