Mandeville Legacy: celebrating Buckinghamshire as the birthplace of the Paralympic movement
Skip to content | Privacy and cookies
Celebrating Buckinghamshire as the birthplace of the Paralympic movement
Search:
Browse the site
Home
About
History
Projects
Collections
For schools
Celebrating Buckinghamshire as the birthplace of the Paralympic movement
First visit?
Father of the Paralympics
Sir Ludwig Guttmann and his pioneering work at Stoke Mandeville Hospital
More
Your story
Share your memories, photos and knowledge of Stoke Mandeville - the hospital, the Games and the Stadium
More
Part of something bigger
We are part of Accentuate, the South East's Legacy Trust programme for 2012
More
Welcome!
This website celebrates Stoke Mandeville's role as the birthplace of the Paralympic movement.
The site tells the story of Sir Ludwig Guttmann at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, who revolutionised  treatment and life chances for those with spinal injuries. He organised the first ‘Stoke Mandeville Games’; the forerunner of today's Paralympic Games to coincide with the start of the London Olympics in 1948.
We have celebrated this legacy through a range of activities involving past and present Paralympians, disabled artists, school children, young people and local residents.
Work continues on the project and we continue to add to this website, so please keep coming back for more information.
See what's new
The latest pages from this site
Paralympic Voices
Recording the stories of Paralympians past and present
New York 1984 to Seoul 1988
The changing games
Table Tennis
Athletics
More new pages...
Featured items
Great Britain's first Paralympic Gold medal
In Rome in 1960, Margaret Maughan won the first ever Gold medal for Great Britain
More
An International Model
One of the great things about Stoke Mandeville was the way it affected the international treatment of paraplegia.
More
The London 2012 Inspire programme recognises exceptional and innovative projects inspired by the 2012 Games.
More
Mandeville Legacy > http://www.mandevillelegacy.org.uk/
Copyright © 2014 Buckinghamshire County Council, All rights reserved
Designed and built by Community Sites
