The Cotswolds Tour Guide | Cotswold Travel Information
The Local Time is
Monday, 20-Feb-2017 08:01:31 GMT
The Cotswolds Tour Guide Cotswold Travel Information
SEARCH THIS SITE
Cotswolds Home Page
Villages & Towns to Visit
Visit Places of History
Accommodation
Places to Eat
Shopping and Services
Gardens to Visit
Tourist Attractions
Visitor Activities
Adventure
Cotswold Tours / Exploring
Whats On Events 2017
Cotswold Maps
History & Heritage
Arts Crafts Music & Authors
Equestrian
Dog Friendly
Strange Things
Filming Locations
Recommended Reading
Steam Railways
Forum Board
Famous People / Celebs
Useful & Travel Information
Travel Assistance
Travel Links
Weddings
Cotswold Top Schools
Buy
Property
Gloucestershire
Oxfordshire Cotswolds
Worcestershire
Herefordshire
Wiltshire
Travel Assistance
We will help you plan the perfect Cotswold holiday with touring itinerary so you don't miss-out on the hidden secrets and charm of this unique region
For more info....
Did You Know!
We are the World's largest Internet resource for the Cotswolds
We get 2.5 million website visitors per year
We have over 900 advertisers
We are the first founding Corporate sponsor of the Broadway Ashmolean Museum
We are based in the Cotswolds
We are here to assist Cotswold businesses succeed
Enquiries......
STRANGE THINGS
IN THE
COTSWOLDS
Blogs from an American
living in the Cotswolds
Interesting Cotswold articles by Ralph Green
Articles by Cathy Retief-Neil South Africa to the Cotswolds
Tweets by @CotswoldInfo
QR Code for
Cotswolds.Info
The Cotswolds - the Heart of England
...where time has stood still for 300 years
The official Cotswolds.info website covering the whole of the Cotswolds and its surrounds is your online travel tour guide for discovering everything you need to know about visiting and touring the unique Cotswolds region of the UK. Your travel in England would not be complete without a visit to the Cotswolds.
This website is the only Internet resource to fully cover the whole of the Cotswolds region and important tourist areas on its borders.
Prepare to be intrigued by our rich unique history, culture and the natural beauty of ancient limestone villages, rolling wolds countryside, beautiful gardens and magnificent historic castles and stately homes.
The Cotswolds is one of the most 'quintessentially English' and unspoiled regions of England where you cannot help but fall in love with the uniqueness of it.
This site is an extensive resource for the whole of the Cotswold region formed by the associated six English counties of Worcestershire, Gloucestershire, Wiltshire, Oxfordshire, Warwickshire and Bath & North East Somerset.
Local Tourist and Visitor Information Centres
Cotswolds Weather
World Clock
World Time Zone Converter
World BBC News
World Telephone Codes
Travel by Public Transport
Plan Travel by Train
Stay in Luxury and Exclusive accommodation in the Cotswolds
Cotswold Conference & Function Facilities
The unique region officially covers an area of 790 square miles in the upper part of the southwest region of England and is the country's largest officially designated 'Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty' see our (Cotswolds Fact Sheet).
Popular with both the English themselves and international visitors from all over the world, the area is well known for gentle hillsides (‘wolds’), outstanding countryside with river valleys, water meadows and beech woods, sleepy ancient limestone villages, historic market towns and for being so ‘typically English’ where time has stood still for over 300 years.
Travel Tour Guide to the Cotswolds
..... we love the Cotswolds
Throughout the Cotswolds stone features in buildings and stone walls act as a common thread in seamlessly blending the historic towns & villages with their surrounding landscape.
This detailed and comprehensive tour directory is the perfect visitor guide to the region's history, beautiful villages, places to visit, finding Cotswold accommodation and places to eat including where to shop, and what glorious gardens to see.
It also includes outdoor activity pursuits including Walking, Cycling, Fishing, Golfing, Garden Visits, Horse Riding, Camping and Caravanning.
The Events Calendar lets you know about Events taking place throughout the year and Maps are provided for the whole region. Find holiday and vacation accommodation and lodgings.
The Cotswolds - "the most English and the least spoiled
of all our countrysides" - J.B. Priestley
The Local Time is Monday, 20-Feb-2017 08:01:31 GMT
SELECTION OF COTSWOLD EVENTS
24, 25 & 26th February 2017 - Oxford International Art Fair, Town Hall,
St. Aldate's, Oxford, OX1 1BX
18 March & 19 March 2017 - West Country Game Fair at Royal Bath and West Showground, Somerset,
FIRST MAJOR GAME FAIR OF THE YEAR – THE BEST IN THE WEST
14 to 18 March 2017 - Cheltenham Racecourse National Hunt Festival
(Gold Cup Week)
The Festival
Champion Day | 14th March 2017	| 10:30 -	18:00
Ladies Day | 15th March 2017	| 10:30 -	18:00
St Patrick’s Thursday | 16th March 2017	| 10:30 -	18:00
Gold Cup Day | 17th March 2017	| 10:30 -	18:00
The World Famous National Hunt Racing Festival at Cheltenham racecourse. 01242 513014 Cheltenham Racing.
For Late Availability accommodation see - Cheltenham Races
8 & 19 March 2017 - Kempley Daffodil Weekend, Stalls & Raffle.
The Daffodil Way (10 miles) on both days 10:30 start
See 'Woodland Walks' for details. 41st ANNIVERSARY.
'Daff & Ride' bus about every 20-30 minutes
Maps of walks are available from the following link :
www.daffs.org.uk
30 March to 2 April 2017 - BLENHEIM PALACE HOSTS
THE COTSWOLD ART & ANTIQUE DEALERS’ ASSOCIATION FAIR
The Cotswolds Art & Antiques Dealers' Association Fair returns to the elegant setting of Blenheim Palace from Thursday 3rd - Sunday 6th April. Lady Henrietta Spencer-Churchill, eldest daughter of the present Duke of Marlborough, is the Patron of the Association.
For further information & more Events view our - Cotswold Events Calendar
What's On
2017
This page last modified
Wednesday, 08-Feb-2017 12:22:58 GMT
A Guide to the unique English region of the Cotswolds where time has stood still for 300 years
Cotswolds.Info LLP,  110 High Street,  Broadway,  Cotswolds,  England  UK  WR12 7AJ
Managing Partner, Richard Pinder, Tel 01386 711518  E-Mail  richard.pinder@cotswolds.info
Established 2002
Contact Us  About Us  Job Opportunities  Media Press Releases and Cuttings  Advertising Opportunities
News and Helpful Information for Advertisers  Testimonials  Cotswolds.Info Services
Please Note: We do not supply Cotswold Holiday brochures - contact the local Visitor Information Centre
near to where you want to stay or visit - Click Here for contact details
Follow @CotswoldInfo
Google+ Richard Pinder         Google+ Cotswolds.Info       Website Index
This website is designed and managed by Cotswolds.Info
Copyright © 2005 to 2016 All rights reserved
