Tours for London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park Tours
For regular tours of the area surrounding the Olympic Park - look no further - our professional Blue Badge Tourist Guides have guided over 100,000 people on our widely acclaimed Olympic walks over the last 5 years:
The tour was great, and an interesting afternoon for everyone who came. I particularly enjoyed the wander on foot from the copper box up towards the velodrome. Compliments to Greg on a job very well done!
The guide was of course full of knowledge, as to be expected from a Blue Badge Guide
Thank you to Tour Guides Ltd for providing tours at a reasonable cost, which give such a huge amount of information on the Olympics, the venues and of the history of the East End of London.
Our tours are recommended by the UK Tourist authority VISIT BRITAIN, and the tours have featured in magazine and newspaper articles all over the world.
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park Tours
London's professional BLUE BADGE TOURIST GUIDES can take you on a tour of the sites of the London 2012 Games to chart the progress of the regeneration of this part of East London and the creation of a new and vibrant hub in London.
The Olympic park is now fully open - come and visit! Click here for details.
For a thousand years the finest and strongest sportsmen met in Olympia every 4 years to show off their strength and skills and at the same time to honour their gods.
The story of the ancient Olympic Games comes to life in this tour of the British Museum where you will learn about the ancient games, the participants, their prizes and you will see these sportsmen taking part in the games, recorded for ever on some of the precious artifacts in the Museum. This tour is revelatory and full of surprises!
This tour is not run on a regular basis for individual visitors, but can be arranged for private groups - please email us for details.
Tour Guides Ltd
Has 35 years experience as a guide booking agency
Directors and office staff are all Blue Badge Tourist Guides
Is recommended by National Tourist Authority “VisitBritain”
Provides all guides for:
The public tours of the Houses of Parliament every Saturday and most weekdays during Parliamentary recesses including the summer, Christmas and Easter
The British Museum corporate events and special exhibitions
The public tours of the Albert Memorial, on behalf of The Royal Parks
Corporate events in the Cabinet War Rooms/Churchill Museum/HMS Belfast
The 2012 Olympic area walking tours
HomeOlympics in London
Booking Enquiries
Group Tours
Contact
Home l	Olympics in London l	Booking l	Group Tours l	Contact us Tour Guides LtdEmail: tgl@tourguides.co.uk
