Welcome | Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders
Jump to navigation
Top menuCochrane Library
Cochrane.org
Admin
CochraneCystic Fibrosis andGenetic Disorders
Trusted evidence.
Informed decisions.
Better health.
Enter terms
Welcome
We are an international network of healthcare professionals, researchers and consumers preparing, maintaining, and disseminating systematic reviews of randomised control trials for treating cystic fibrosis and other genetic disorders (haemoglobinopathies. coagulopathies and inborn errors of metabolism). Our editorial base is located within the Department of Women's and Children's Health, University of Liverpool and based at the Institute in the Park which is part of Alder Hey Children's NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, United Kingdom.Check out our new podcast about improving knowledge of sickle cell disease and recognising its complications for patients and caregivers. Lead author Monika Asnani summarises the evidence she and her colleagues from the Caribbean Institute for Health Research at the University of the West Indies in Kingston, Jamaica found. Latest output published on The Cochrane LibraryOn Issue 1, 2017 of The Cochrane Library we have published a total of 160 reviews and 26 protocols. There are also 19 registered titles currently progressing to protocol status. The production of these reviews involves a network of over 1000 contributors (authors, consumers and referees) throughout the world. We very much welcome interest from new consumers, referees and potential reviewers. Further information can be obtained by contacting the group.
Cochrane News
World Kidney Day
Early bird registration and stipends now open for the Global Evidence Summit
Anne Anderson Prize: recognizing the enhancement and visibility of women in Cochrane
New Cochrane Library Special Collection: Enabling breastfeeding for mothers and babies
Breastfeeding: evidence on effective support and enablers for mothers and their babies
More
Welcome
About the GroupWho we are
What we do
Editorial Board
Funding and support
Cochrane
Previous news features
Documents and PoliciesOur editorial process
Updating policy
Our specialised trials registers
Conflicts of Interest Policy
Feedback (Comments and Criticism) policy
Author resources
Consumer resources
Peer reviewer resources
Glossary of terms
Our publicationsPublished protocols and reviews
Registered titles
Reviews needed
Podcasts
Cochrane Library
Related publications
Contact us
Cochrane
About Cochrane
Cochrane.org
Who we are
Get involved
Consumer Network
Partners
Colloquium
In the news
Publications
Cochrane Library
Library homepage
Cochrane Reviews
Trials
Cochrane Library iPad Edition
Journal Club
Podcasts
Cochrane Clinical Answers
Community
Community
Archie log-in
Training and support
Methods
Software
Jobs and opportunities
Contact us
General enquiries
Chief Executive Officer
Editor in Chief
Cochrane Groups
Media
Trusted evidence.
Informed decisions.
Better health.
Copyright © 2017 The Cochrane Collaboration
Disclaimer | Privacy | Cookie policy
