Deciphering Developmental Disorders (DDD) project - Home page
Home page
Family newsletters
Project updates
What is the DDD study?
Developmental disorders
What is a genome?
Technologies used in DDD
How to give samples
How we process your sample
Accessing DDD data
Publications
Ethics research
Further information
Frequently asked questions
Recruitment into the DDD study has now finished. We are analysing every child recruited to the study, including those
where parental samples were not received, and updates will continue to be be
posted here.
The DDD Study is aiming to issue a report to the clinical teams on all participants by the end of 2017, but research on
undiagnosed families will continue until at least 2021.
Welcome to DDD!
The aim of the DDD study is to advance clinical genetic practice for children with developmental disorders by the
systematic application of the latest microarray and sequencing methods while addressing the new ethical challenges raised.
DDD featured on the BBC!
Aired on 25 January 2017: "Child gene study identifies new
developmental disorders"
This website is primarily for families who have been invited to join the Deciphering Developmental Disorders (DDD) study by
their local NHS genetics service, and want to know more. We hope you will decide to participate in the study.
Beverly Searle, CEO of Unique (Rare Chromosome Disorder Group), says:
"Over many years I have witnessed the frustration and heartache of many families for whom a reason for their child's
developmental delay has not been found by looking at their chromosomes down a microscope. More recently I have been
delighted to see the relief and joy of other families on receiving a diagnosis for their child lucky enough to have had
their DNA tested using array analysis. I welcome the DDD project with its cutting edge array and DNA sequencing
technologies since it offers to so many more families, now and in the future, greater hope for a genetic diagnosis and
the prospect of information, help and support tailored to their child's genetic disorder."
Cookies policy | Terms & Conditions.
This site is hosted by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.
