Emetophobia - Fear of Vomiting (Home)
Emetophobia
Emetophobia is the common name for a Specific Phobia
of Vomiting. It is a condition that is often misunderstood and may be
difficult to treat. However it is possible to significantly improve the
quality of your life, even if you don't fully overcome it. This website
aims to help you understand emetophobia - its causes, effects and how
to get help in the UK. Knowledge in this area is limited because of the
lack of research or controlled trials. This information is written for
people with emetophobia, their relatives, friends or carers and can be
found by clicking here. Information on opportunities
to participate in research are described below.
Research - Would you like help with research?
There is still a lot to learn about
emetophobia and we are carrying out various research projects that
aim to help us find out more about a Specific Phobia of Vomiting
so we can improve on treatment.
a) We are conducting a study that aims to create
a new questionnaire that will be able to measure the severity of
emetophobic symptoms and help therapists track the changes in symptoms
over time. We are also trying to find out how often people with
emetophobia vomit in a given year compared to the general population.
This will involve filling in some questionnaires online and keeping
a record of each time you vomit over the next 2 years.
b) We are conducting a study that involves a
detailed interview with a psychologist about the development of
your emetophobia.
If you would be interested in participating
in this research or would just like some more information please
contact Nell by email
or by phone on 0203 228 3212. By replying you do not commit yourself
to anything, she will simply give you some more information and
give you the opportunity to ask questions. Your assistance will
be greatly appreciated.
If you wish to financially support further research
into emetophobia, then please contact us as there are a number of
opportunities.
Dr David Veale, FRCPsych (www.veale.co.uk)
Consultant Psychiatrist in Cognitive Behaviour
Therapy, South
London and Maudsley Trust and The
Priory Hospital North London.
