Old Operating Theatre Museum and Herb Garret Web Site
This is the Museum's old web site. For the new web site go to:
http://oldoperatingtheatre.com
The Oldest Operating Theatre In Britain in the unique timber framed Herb Garret
The Old Operating Theatre Museum is one of the most unusual museums in London. The Operating Theatre is the oldest in Europe and found in a unique space in the Herb Garret of St Thomas Church, and was part of old St Thomas Hospital.
Watch our promotional video
Whats On at the Museum
Museum Report - The Latest Trustees' Report
The Old Operating Theatre Museum is listed as:
Museum Video - "Medicine at the Movies" project awarded a commendation in the category "Digital Access on Site" at the Jodi Awards
What They Said About us - 'Highlight of my trip to London' Tripadvisor. 'Best Museum Entrance we have ever seen!'
'Coolest Thing I ever Stumbled upon!'
London in your lunchbreak - Daily Telegraph article
Join us on Facebook - Click here
Join us on Myspace - Click here
Watch our Promotional video
PANORAMIC TOURS OF THE MUSEUM
The Operating Theatre Tour
The St. Thomas St. Tour
Ante Chamber Tour
The Herb
Tour
NEWS FROM THE MUSEUM
Museum Lease
The Museum has just signed a 120 year lease, securing the long-term future of the Museum for the first time!
Museum Report
The Trustees' Report for 2012
50th Anniversary
This year is the 50th Anniversary of the foundation of the Museum on 27th October 1962. Click here for information
Patient's Story
The Unknown Case
of Benjamin Gidliffe
by I. K. Serumaga
Arts Engagement
Exhibitions and talks
Annual Accounts
Finances
Other Videos
Medical London Series
Museum Movie
wins Jodl award
News from the Museum
Museum Newsletter etc.
Reports and Policies
Recent Museum reports and policy documents
What They Said About us
Reviews and comment
Literary Quotes
Poem by Thomas Lynch
Museum RSS News Feeds
Include our
Feed on your website.
Visit Our Online Shop
Perfect for unusual gifts!
I-Exhibitions
Pdfs of museum
displays
The Shard
Slide Show
Restoration!
Photos of the
Church restoration
Museum Video - project awarded a commendation in the category "Digital Access on Site" at the Jodi Awards
Do you want to save money on a visit? Then buy a London Pass!
15.04.2013 KPF
