Hypopara UK
Welcome to Hypopara UKWe are the only patient organisation for adults & children living with a parathyroid condition in the UK and Ireland. Diagnosing and living with a long term rare disease can be challenging and isolating but we're here to help you. We care about improving your quality of life so we raise awareness about our rare conditions, support new research, fundraise, and offer friendly support and reliable information about all types of hypoparathyroidism and hyperparathyroidism. We hope you will join us - we look forward to meeting you.
SfE patient support grant
European Hypopara leaders meet
Rare Disease day 2016
First clinical guideline published on Hypoparathyroidism July 2015
Hypopara UK celebrates 10 years
World Awareness Day June 1st
BTA Thyroid Cancer guidelines 2014 published
Patient survey PARADOX reveals true extent of symptoms
New emergency guidance and more...
SfE BES Brighton 2016
SfE CU/ENU Birmingham 2016
SfE NCC London 2016
SfE BES Nov 2015 Edinburgh
BAETS Oct 2015 Henley
ECE May 2015 Dublin
International Hypopara conference May 2015 Florence
and more....
Rare Disease Day - 28th February 2017
Every year rare disease group come together around the world to raise awareness about rare disease. This is the 10th year and the focus is on research.
We work closely with specialists to support their research. At the moment that involves stem cell research and surgical interventions. Patient surveys which aim to highlight information about our quality of life will be winging their way to your inbox very soon.
We are also  involved with the following Rare Disease Day events:
Press campaign
Patient stories highlighting 3 types of hypoparathyroidism are featured in the Mediaplanet-UK Rare Diseases Campaign in The Guardian for Rare Disease Day today.
Isabel Wray da Silva’s story is about her experience living with post surgical hypoparathyroidism, while Vincent Thorpe Tavares’s mum Christabel talks about him being born with a very rare genetic form. You can read both stories in full here
The charity Climb feature another of our members, Harriet Macleod, talking about her pseudohypoparathyroidism here
If you would like to help Vincent buy a waterproof pump please read more and donate here
Parliamentary Reception
Two of our members, Stephanie Agnew and Anne Cusack will be representing us in Scotland this year at the Rare Disease Day reception at Holyrood on the 1st March. You’ll be able to see photos in our newsletter.
Bears4Rare campaign
Bears4Rare is an initiative from Shire which aims to bring public attention to the difficulty rare disease patients face accessing treatments.  Bears4Rare aims to unite the patient voice to highlight the universal challenges faced by people in the UK living with a rare disease.
A very short survey is being used to gather anonymous stories from patients and their families impacted by rare disease in the UK so that real patient insights can be displayed at the launch of Bears4Rare at London Waterloo Station. The launch event will take place on Wednesday 15 March with an installation of 1,000 teddy bears - each one representing a person living with a rare disease passing through the station every hour.
Please click here follow the link here to answer a few short questions about your story.
Newsletter No 12 - Winter 2016 out now!
Click here to read or download
Primary Hyperparathyroidism - new leaflet out now
You can read the leaflet online, download it to print or order hard copies.
Click here to visit our Publications page
First European 'Patient Advisory Group' board meeting
On 8th July 2016 an historic event took place in the hypopara world when the leaders of the European hypopara organisations met for the first time. We have now set up a network to facilitate communication and further collaboration. Read more here ....
L-R Top Claudio Marelli & Madeline (Shire), Laura Masi (Italy), Bill Glenister (carer),  Liz Glenister (UK), Greg Robertson (Shire), Natalie Grosset-Holenka (France) Erik Jensen(carer), Helen Dahl Hansen (Nordic), Isabel Wray da Silva (UK). Seated Blaithin O'Donnell (Ireland), Louiza Ergin (Denmark), Agneta Bjormryd (Sweden), Amy Karrer (Shire).
Corporate Partners
We are now looking for our first Corporate Partners. If you are a UK company or know a company who may like to benefit from partnering us please click here to learn more.
The work of small charities
Our founder and chief executive, Liz Glenister, won the 'Britain’s Best Volunteer' award 2016 in recognition of her ten years' work for patients with hypoparathyroidism.
Read our press release here
The award is from Markel who run the award with the Small Charities Coalition. Huge thanks to them both. Read their article here and watch the video they made about us and why this award is so important to a small charity like ours.
European Society of Endocrinology Clinical Guideline: Treatment of chronic hypoparathyroidism in adults
The first ever clinical guideline for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism has just been published! Hypopara UK has been working towards this day for a long time, raising awareness about patient needs and the need to provide information for professionals. Weare very pleased to have been invited to review this paper and we have also collaborated in the development of the accompanying patient leaflet which will be out soon.
We are very pleased to see so many recommendations that agree with our own patient findings and we hope that guidance on the use of PTH therapy will soon be amended.
You can download the guideline from the ESE website here
What is living with Hypopara like?
This is the question we get asked most often and its not an easy one to answer. Any rare, long term condition takes some getting used to and, in Hypopara, the need to manage calcium levels can be a challenge. Imagine a diabetic without a home tester or insulin - we don't yet have replacement hormone or home testers - but we're working on it.
Hypopara is an individual condition so everyone experiences it differently; symptoms may be mild in some people yet severe in others. There may be swings as levels fluctuate in response to factors such as exercise, diet, infection, stress and the menstrual cycle so adjustments in medication are occasionally needed, along with regular blood tests. Some people have very stable calcium levels while others don't but mostly, once medication is properly adjusted, most people are able to lead a normal life. There is a lot you can do to help yourself too - read more here
Listen to Emma's radio interview here
Visit our 'Living with Hypopara' collection of patients' stories click here
Read the PARADOX study, carried out in 2013, which finds a 'high burden of illness in patients with hypoparathyroidism' and has now been published in the Endocrine Practice journal. The full study is available to read here for members only.
Pregnancy and Hypopara
To mark World Hypopara Awareness Day this year we focused on  pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding and Hypopara.
This can be difficult; there is little research in this field and many doctors have never had to manage a hypopara woman, let alone a pregnant one! The stories we bring you show how four young women met this demanding challenge with a positive attitude - and the most beautiful results.
Meet Isabel and her baby, Rafael. Isabel has permanent post-surgical hypopara following a total thyroidectomy due to thyroid cancer in 1988. As a result of her long-term medication, she also has stage 3 chronic kidney disease. Read Isabel's full story and other stories here.
If your baby is diagnosed with Hypopara please get in touch. Read Vincent's Story here
Are you or your family affected by a parathyroid condition? Are you a doctor, scientist or student? Whatever your interest we aim to :
provide support and a place of contact for our members via our forum and telelphone helpline, newsletters and regional groups
provide information and education via our website and leaflets for patients & health professionals
raise awareness about Hypopara to the medical world and the wider public
campaign for better treatment and standardised care
promote and assist in new research
Contact us: If you have any questions about parathyroid matters or about Hypopara UK that haven't been answered on the website or if you have any suggestions or comments about the site please get in touch.
How you can help us
Get involved: Hypopara UK is run entirely by volunteers and our membership is free. We need your support to help us help you and others like you. If you’d like to enable us to continue our activities in research, awareness, education and support please click here to find out more.
Please join us:  Raising interest in research into rare conditions is hard but the more members we have the more researchers are interested - and the louder our voice. Free membership of Hypopara UK gives you entry to our online forum and private facebook group (UK members only) and you will recieve trial & research updates and biannual newsletters, as well as ongoing support and advice. Just click the 'Join us free' button above to register.
Hypopara UK is a national voluntary organisation and is endorsed by the British Thyroid Association , The British Association of Endocrine and Thyroid Surgeons and the Society for Endocrinology.
We are a member of Genetic Alliance UK,  Rare Disease UK , National Voices and Thyroid Cancer Alliance
Hypopara UK  is the operating name of Hypoparathyroidism UK, a small charity recognised by HMRC for tax purposes © 2005-2015 Hypopara UK
Welcome to Hypopara UKAbout Hypopara UKMeet the teamMedical AdvisorsAnnual ReportContact us
Join Hypopara UK and help our voice be heard.
Membership is free and gives you access to our online forums, telephone helpline, local groups, resources, newsletters.
Endorsed by:
British ThyroidAssociation
British Associationof Endocrine & Thyroid Surgeons
Members of:
We are very grateful to be supported by :
Art work by WHIPSophie Burrows William de Wilde
Photos from
Top  |  Cookie Policy  |  Privacy  |  Copyright  |
Welcome to Hypopara UKAbout Hypopara UKMeet the teamMedical AdvisorsAnnual ReportContact us
What is Hypoparathyroidism?Causes of HypoparaSymptoms of HypoparaDiagnosis of HypoparaTreatment & Self HelpWhat is Hyperparathyroidism?Related conditionsThyroid Cancer Thyroid and Parathyroid SurgeryInformation A-ZParadox StudyLinks - Patients
Become a memberMembers' ForumFind a local group Facebook GroupSelf Help Guide Food MattersWhat our members say about Hypopara UKTravel Advice & InsuranceMedic AlertEmergency medical cardBenefits Advice GuideDoctor search
Ways to helpCorporate partnersFundraising EventsHypopara UK ShopClinical TrialsOther studies & surveysAdd your story
Press ReleasesNews 2014 - 2016News 2011-2013News 2005-2010NewslettersConferences
Rare Disease DayWorld Hypopara Awareness DayWorld Hypopara Awareness Day websiteFind Hypopara Organisations Around the WorldHypopara in the NewsPatient Stories 1 - Living with Hypopara (all types)Patient Stories 2 - Pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding with hypoparaVincent's Story
Patient Information LeafletsNewslettersRecipe Cards
Key Research
Emergency Guidelines for professionalsBAETS Post Thyroidectomy Hypocalcaemia GuidelinesESE Clinical Guideline: Treatment of Chronic HypoparathyroidismManagement of Hypoparathyroidism: Summary Statement and GuidelinesA Doctor's Personal Experience of HypoparathyroidismPatient Stories & Case StudiesNHS documentsLinks - Professionals
