The Information Point for Centronuclear and Myotubular Myopathy
The centronuclear myopathies are
a family of rare inherited neuromuscular diseases. The conditions manifest themselves
as
defects in the cell structure of voluntary muscles, causing
low muscle tone and affecting both children and adults at various stages of life. The term
centronuclear myopathy is used to refer to the two autosomal forms of the condition, whilst the term myotubular myopathy is
used to describe the x linked form of the condition. Collectively, the three forms are known as the centronuclear myopathies.
Centronuclear and myotubular myopathy are
neurological conditions not cognitive conditions. Many affected children are trached, meaning that a tube is inserted into the individuals neck to help them breath and this may result in them being behind with their language skills but a speaking valve can help with this. Sadly, people are mistakenly led to believe that they have learning difficulties - but the brain is not a muscle and it is more usual that these children are exceptionally bright and intelligent for their years. Children can be taught sign language which helps them communicate until they are able to talk and a speech therapist can teach exercises that help strengthen the muscles in face and throat. Other forms of the condition present later in life and are considered to be milder, however, all forms of the condition can be managed.
Established in 2001 the Information Point
has three main aims:
to provide information about centronuclear and myotubular myopathy
to provide support
by bringing people with the condition together, whatever their age, whatever form of the condition they have and wherever they may be in the world
to create
awareness of this rare condition
For further information about centronuclear and myotubular myopathy please
visit the pages below.
About the conditions
Understanding myopathies
Please also follow The Information Point on social media for centronuclear and myotubular myopathy news as and when it happens.
