No Panic - Helping you break the chains of anxiety disorders
My Account
Edit profile
Sign Out
Basket
Checkout
Application Forms
New Memberships & Renewals
Volunteers Application
Paper forms
Videos
Contact Us
Feedback
Youth Services
Publicity Opportunities
Donate
No Panic
Helping you break the chains of anxiety disorders
Helpline 0844 967 4848 (Everyday 10:00am - 10:00pm, Charge: 5p a minute + your access charge)
Youth Helpline 0330 606 1174        (For 13 to 20 year olds, open 3pm to 6pm Monday to Friday, Landline rates apply)
£0.000 items
Navigation
Crisis Breathing MessageRelaxing Body Scan
News
News
News
News
Home
About Us
About No Panic
History of the Charity
No Panic’s Patrons
Who’s Who at No Panic
084X Numbers & Their Costs
Get Help
Having a Panic Attack?
Body Scan Relaxation
The Helpline & Volunteering
Youth Helpline
Feel Stress Free By Thrive
One-To-One Telephone Mentor Scheme
Telephone Recovery Group
Social Media & Live Chat Support
No Panic’s Symptom Checker
Access Anxiety Aid
Fundraising & Supporters
Fundraising
A Thank You to No Panic’s Supporters
Legacies
Rebecca and Michelle`s Mountain Hike for No Panic
Resources & Information
Resources
No Panic’s Beginner’s Guide to Anxiety and Panic
Bristol & District Tranquilliser Project
No Panic Sutton & Merton
Child in Mind – A Series on Child & Family Mental Health
NICE guidelines
GAD & Panic disorder with/without Agoraphobia
OCD & BDD
PTSD
Depression
Depression in Young People
Depression with a Long Term Health Condition
IBS
Social Anxiety
Common Mental Health Disorders
Antenatal & Postnatal Mental Health
Stories
Anxiety Disorder
Panic Attacks
Phobias
OCD
Shop
Books
CD
DVD
Reading Material
Membership & Volunteer Services
Youth Services
Blog
No Panic’s Blog
Out & About with No Panic
Daphne Jones
Hello and welcome,
Welcome to the Website of the  National Organisation for Panic, Anxiety Neuroses, Information and Care. We provide information and advice for the carers of and people with Panic, Anxiety, Phobias, Obsessive Compulsive Disorders and the effects of Tranquiliser withdrawal. We can provide treatment and support over the telephone so that all sufferers can be helped. We also have expanding internet services please try them out. Please take all information and advice in tandem with the support from your local GP.
We hope you find this website useful, informative and supportive.
Learn More Membership SignupInformation PackPublicity
Volunteering
Are you kind, caring and a good listener?
Do you want to help people with anxiety disorders?
Can you spare 3 hours a week?
If you answered yes to all of those questions we are looking for you. Please click the button’s below to find out more.
Volunteering Information Apply Online
Child in Mind
Child in Mind
Child in mind was developed by the Anna Freud Centre for Families and Children. It is a series of podcasts that look at mental health in children and their families. You can listen to them as they release by clicking the button above.
Youth Helpline
No Panic is pleased to announce that in association with the Shropshire Young Health Champions; we have opened a Youth Helpline for 13 to 20 year olds. It is open between 3pm and 6pm Monday to Friday You can phone it on 0330 606 1174. Landline call rates apply.
Youth Helpline poster
Features
Mentor ServiceMentor Service (one to one) with a trained mentor who helps people with their anxiety problems, teaches Anxiety Management and Cognitive Behaviour TherapyRecovery GroupsRecovery Groups for members with a trained group leader who teaches Anxiety Management and Cognitive Behaviour Therapy.Help LineOur help line is answered by trained volunteers to give out information, show empathy and support for all anxiety sufferers. The service charge for this line is 5p which will be added to your phone company's access charge to get your price per minute.
Information
From time to time No Panic receives requests from the press for people to share their stories and raise awareness in print, on the radio and on the television. If you would like to get involved with any of these fantastic opportunities please press the publicity button and follow the instructions of your chosen opportunity.
Fantastic Publicity Opportunities
Publicity Opportunities
No Panic’s Youth Helpline is now open on 0330 606 1174. This helpline is for those aged 13 to 20 years old. It opens between 3pm and 6pm Monday to Friday. Landline rates apply. This was developed with the help of the Shropshire Young Health champions and is sponsored by Speakserve.
Youth Helpline
No Panic has a Live Chat service on our website. When the button in the bottom right is grey it’s offline. When it’s Yellow you can speak to someone. When it’s offline you can leave a message and we’ll email you back.
All you have to do is click the button, fill in a short form and then you can instant message with someone from No Panic. Normal opening times where an operator is available are below.
Between 6pm & 7pm each evening
Between 5pm & 6pm Tuesdays
Between 2pm & 4pm Wednesdays
Between 2pm & 4pm Thursdays
Live Chat
You can find No Panic on the Social Media sites below.
Twitter: @CharityNoPanic
Our Facebook Page we also respond to messages on this page.
Our Facebook Group, which is closed & moderated for user’s safety.
Social Media
Latest Products
Panic Attacks: Five Steps to Freedom
£12.00–£12.90
Select options
Crisis Breathing Message CD
£6.00
Select options
Youth Mentoring
£5.00
Add to cart
Carer’s Leaflet
£1.50
Add to cart
Member’s Benefits
Membership gives you access to our one to one and group support services, along with the option to join our contact book so you can make pen and phone friends. We send you out a bi-monthly newsletter with information and news. You can also access our member’s only coffee afternoons and have some social time with other members of No Panic over the phone. If you’re looking for information on our contact book service, the information and application form is available through the my account section of this website.
We hope that you can find support, information and answers to many of your questions surrounding these disorders and, in time, make a full recovery like many of our members have.
Winner of the Guardian Charity of the Year Award
The Queen’s Award for Voluntary Service
Member of the Help Lines Association
Sponsored by SpeakServe, who help us with their Telephone Conference Lines
Colin Hammond MBE
This website is dedicated to the late Colin Hammond, founder of No Panic. Without Colin’s hard work the invaluable support of No Panic would not exist today.
Carer’s Week
As this is carers week I am sure many people suffering from anxiety would wish to say a big thank you for the help they receive if they have a carer, which is often a family member or friends.
The people that care are there every day doing the best they can to help and trying to understand how best to support someone with, for example phobias or obsessive compulsive disorder, are just two examples…
Read More Here: http://www.nopanic.org.uk/carers-week/
We’re Recruiting Volunteers for our Helpline
We are looking for people to volunteer with us on the helpline helping those with anxiety disorders to cope and recover. Please see our above poster, you can also download it on the button below. You can find out more and apply online using the various buttons below as well.
Download the Poster Volunteering Information Apply Online
Mental Health: Forward Thinking – Delivering the Strategy
The Open Forum is holding a conference on the new Mental health strategy for England. Including talks by speakers on how the strategy will be implemented by the NHS. Click the title to read more.
Due to unforeseen circumstances the Ladies Night in Telford has been canceled.
Support & Advice Page Highlights
Looking for our publicity opportunities please see our dedicated page.
Symptoms! All Those Scary, Concerning Symptoms & How Normal They Are.
No Panic’s Anxiety Symptoms Explained gives you a list of the most common symptoms experienced, and explains those with specific names like feelings of depersonalisation & unreality or hyperventilation. These symptoms can be reduced with techniques like breathing. If you need reassurance please have a look at the article & please don’t Google them. If you Google a symptom you just find all illnesses that the particular symptom can be related too, not the answer to the question you need to ask. If yours isn’t on the list ask No Panic. Click on the picture to read the full article.
When you feel so tense & can’t relax. Try This!
When you feel so tense and can’t relax with your normal methods due to anxiety, we have a method that may help. A physical muscle relaxation technique physically tires you out and relaxes you. This can be done to help you get to sleep as well as to help relax you. We suggest that you have someone read the exercise to you so it’s easier to use. Click the picture below to read more.
I’m new to Anxiety, Help!
Anxiety can be a big thing when your new to it, we’ve produced a guide to get you through the first steps. Working through the basic techniques and seeing your doctor for the first time and some of the first symptoms you may experience. Try not be be afraid it is all going to be alright. Click the Panic Button below to read more.
Cathartic.Co
Share your story with complete anonymity.
Cathartic is a website where people can post their issues, worries and experiences without fear of judgement or the risk of your post being identified back to you. Cathartic.co has been built with anonymity at its core; no personal details are stored, all IP’s are masked, even your cookie is destroyed as soon as the session is closed.
Anonymous communication can significantly benefit people who are feeling scared, anxious, depressed, lonely, embarrassed, stigmatised or bullied. Often people can be nervous or worried about discussing their issues and problems because of the stigma that is attached.
Feedback on No Panic’s Services Please feel free to give us anonymous feedback on our services using these links.
The Helpline
One to one Mentoring Scheme
Telephone Recovery Group Service
Customer Service
Internet Services Feedback
Popular Links
The Facts about No Panic
The Beginner's guide to Anxiety
Anxiety Symptoms Explained
Relaxation Technique
Illness & Death Phobias
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Thinking Too Much
General Anxiety Disorder
Tranquillizer Withdrawal
Carers Support
Why is it important to breathe properly to help anxiety?
Having a Panic Attack?
Body Scan Relaxation
Articles by Professor Kevin Gournay
Agoraphobia Cause and Treatment
A look at Behavioural Therapy
Body Dysmorphic Disorder
Children's Fears
Do Panic Attacks cause Heart Attacks?
Hormones
Neurosis or Psychosis
OCD and it's Treatment
Omega 3 & Mental Health
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
Spontaneous Panic
Unreality
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Twitter @charitynopanic
Tweets by @charitynopanic
No Panic Facebook Pagehttps://www.facebook.com/charitynopanic/Donate to No Panic We are very grateful for all donations, no matter how big or small. All of your donations go back into running the charity. It's easy to donate.
You can donate here.
Categories
Anxiety Disorder
Articles
Book Reviews
Children's Anxiety
Facts
Fundraising
Media Productions
No Panic
OCD
Panic Attacks
Phobias
Poems
Publicity
Stories
Uncategorized
Weekly Blog
The website contains a wealth of information.
Please take a look at the following areas
where you will find a lot of
valuable information and help.View Resources
No Panic – Here to help anxiety
No Panic is a totally voluntary charity, whose aims are to aid the relief and rehabilitation of those people suffering from Panic Attacks, Phobias, Obsessive Compulsive Disorders, related Anxiety Disorders, including Tranquilliser Withdrawal, and to provide support to sufferers and their families.
Contact Us No Panic
Jubilee House,
74 High Street
Madeley
Telford, Shropshire
TF7 5AH
Helpline: 0844 967 4848
Crisis Number: 01952 680835
Office Number: 01952 680460
Email: admin@nopanic.org.uk
Registered Charity No. 1018184
Latest News
Carer’s Week
Poem: Love yourself by Nick
Member’s Videos
Carers: Caring for Yourself
No Panic’s Statement on the comments by George Freeman MP
Categories
Anxiety Disorder
Articles
Book Reviews
Children's Anxiety
Facts
Fundraising
Media Productions
No Panic
OCD
Panic Attacks
Phobias
Poems
Publicity
Stories
Uncategorized
Weekly Blog
Archives
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
October 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
Subscribe to No Panic
Donate to No Panic We are very grateful for all donations, no matter how big or small. All of your donations go back into running the charity. It's easy to donate.
You can donate here.
Latest Products
Panic Attacks: Five Steps to Freedom
£12.00–£12.90
Crisis Breathing Message CD
£6.00
Youth Mentoring
£5.00
Carer's Leaflet
£1.50
No Panic Wristbands
£1.50
No Panic © 2017. All Rights Reserved.
Web Design Shropshire
