Ovacome | The ovarian cancer support charity
About us
People
HU
Call our Freephone on 0800 008 7054
Support
Information
News
For Health Professionals
Campaigning & Volunteering
Fundraise
About us
People
Donate
Select Page
Home
Ovarian Cancer Support Service
If you have been diagnosed with ovarian cancer or think that you could be at risk call our specialist team on our support line for expert guidance, personalised clinical and research information and emotional support. Join Ovacome today, membership is free.
Become a member
Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month
Join us this March to raise awareness of ovarian cancer. #ThinkOvarianCancer
Get involved
Survivors Teaching Students
The Survivors Teaching Students programme uses the voices and experiences of women with ovarian cancer to help students learn and retain knowledge about the signs and symptoms, risk factors and treatment protocols for the disease.
Find out more
We were founded and are run by women with ovarian cancer themselves and are therefore especially sensitive to the needs of women with this devastating diagnosis. We have been supporting women affected by ovarian cancer and their families since 1996. Our specialist support team give expert guidance, personalised clinical and research information, emotional support and resources for women diagnosed with ovarian cancer or worried they might be at risk. We run the only ovarian cancer online forum which is accessible, informal and patient led; where women with ovarian cancer, and their family, can discuss their experiences with other women suffering from the disease. They offer each other encouragement, knowledge, understanding and friendship creating a much needed support community. Join Ovacome today, membership is free.
My Ovacome:
Speak to others with similar experiences
Just diagnosed
Map of support services
Clinical Trials
DONATE
Interested in what we’re doing? We’ll keep you in the loop!
28 February 2017: In the News, Blood test could help early detection of ovarian cancerScreening study has encouraging results for women at higher risk of ovarian cancer Read More
Weber county health department Køb cialis bivirkninger af plan b pille
CONTACT US 0207 299 6654
ovacome@ovacome.org.uk
Ovacome, 52- 54 Featherstone Street,
London, EC1Y 8RT
PATIENT INFORMATION
Just diagnosed
Fact sheets
Support for Younger Women
OC Glossary
NEWS
28 February 2017: In the News, Blood test could help early detection of ovarian cancer
13th Feb 2017: Spring Newsletter 2017
8th November 2016:
HU
HU
© Copyright 2017 Ovacome · Registered Charity Number 1159682 · Designed and built by Popcorn
