Post Viral Fatigue forum - My recovery, information & PVF/ME support forum
Post Viral Fatigue - you WILL
get better.
My recovery story from Post Viral Fatigue / Myalgic Encephalomyelitis / Chronic
Fatigue Syndrome / ME / CFS
Home
Onset
Symptoms
Treatment
Latest News
NEW! Forum
Post Viral Fatigue
Welcome to my website
I was diagnosed with post viral fatigue 3 years ago in 2006, this is an illness
also known by other names such as Myalgic Encephalomyelitis, ME, CFS and Chronic
Fatigue Syndrome. I have setup this site to document my experience with the illness
and more importantly to detail how I got well again. Its designed for people who
have been to thier GP convinced they were dying and have been told they probably
have this, anyone like me would immediately go home and google "post viral fatigue"
If you are reading this because you're looking for hope then let me provide it for
you. You WILL recover. I did. But it will take time, and sad to say the duration
of these illnesses is usually measured not in weeks or months but in years.
I am approaching 3 years now and I am 99% recovered. Another year and i'm pretty
sure it will be 100%. In these pages i'll tell you what i've learned about the illness
along the way, what works and what doesn't work
Everyday will get easier, and one day you will be better, remember that.
The best place to start is probably the onset page. My
view on the cause of post viral fatigue can be found here
NEW! I'm pleased to annouce our new Forum
which has gone live today. I've put this up to hopefully make it easier to communicate.
Of course ill still answer any emails, and thanks to those people who have emailed
me
Hot forum topics
Do Her Symptoms Sound Right?
Hi, I wanted to write a list of my daughter's symptoms and see what folk think. Is it PVFS/M.E/CFS? [U]Always present
...
4 replies, thread by Emily's Mum
Hello...
Hi, Just thought I would introduce myself before I wander around and read other posts. My name is Stacey, I am
...
5 replies, thread by Emily's Mum
a slight improvement... I hope.
At the beginning of the illness, I experienced heart attack like jolts to my heart which felt as though my body
...
16 replies, thread by Kevin
Suffering
Hi to you all. I've been suffering now for 6-7 weeks with tiredness, aching limbs and lightheadedness. If I do too
...
6 replies, thread by Steve from Hull
Hi! My PVS story
Hi folks So glad I found this place, was beginning to feel like I was the only person ever to feel
...
24 replies, thread by Kendo
Sauna use for CFS suffers
Hi Kevin and fellow sufferers, 10 days ago I bought a Far Infrared sauna and am doing 20 minutes a day
...
4 replies, thread by tokyo99
Newbie
Hello, I'm Kate and I'm living in Brighton. I was diagnosed with post viral fatigue following a virus in Feb 2014.
...
5 replies, thread by coolkat
I need advice :)
Hello, My name's Hannah and I was diagnosed with post viral fatigue a few weeks ago. That was after about 6
...
6 replies, thread by hannah
mail@postviralfatigue.me.uk
