Home - Sleep Apnoea Trust
Logo
Welcome to The Sleep Apnoea Trust Association
Working to improve the lives of sleep apnoea patients,their partners and their families. Managed by volunteers, SATA is regarded as the leading UK charity working in the field of Sleep Apnoea
Complimentary Medical Alert card and purchase of a Medical Equipment Baggage Tag are now additional benefits if you join the Trust
Logo
Welcome to The Sleep Apnoea Trust Association
Working to improve the lives of sleep apnoea patients,their partners and their families. Managed by volunteers, SATA is regarded as the leading UK charity working in the field of Sleep Apnoea
Complimentary Medical Alert card and purchase of a Medical Equipment Baggage Tag are now additional benefits if you join the Trust
Home
Driving and Sleep Apnoea
General Guidance to Drivers
Detailed Guidance to Drivers
DVLA
Patient Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Diagnosis of Sleep Apnoea
Treatment of Sleep Apnoea
Nocturnal Hypoventilation Syndrome
Glossary of Terms
Clinical Information
GPs Guidelines
NICE
Press & Media Information
Patient Support
Help Lines
Medical Alert Cards
External Links
Other Support Groups
Medical Equipment Tag
SATAday (Annual Conference)
Members Area
Join SATA/Buy MA Card/Medical Equipment Tag
Renew Membership online
Support our Work – Donate/Fundraise
Donations
Fundraising
Leaflets, Forms & Newsletter
Leaflets
SATA Forms
Sleep Matters (Newsletter)
UK Sleep Clinics
Search the Site
Contact Us
Cookie & Website Terms of Use
Follow Us
Although we support patients in many ways, we do not provide medical advice. If you suspect you may be suffering from sleep apnoea please contact your GP who will be able to refer you to a specialised sleep clinic.
Annual Conference
Education
Funding Research
Help Lines
Lobbying
Manufacturers Exhibition
Medical Alert Cards
Practical Support
Publications
What's New
+ Sleep-Matters-Dec-2016 now available to all visitors
+ "How much CPAP is enough?"  - 4 hours per night CPAP use questioned - some need less, some need more to reduce symptoms - page 2 of  Sleep-Matters-Dec-2016
+ SATAday 2017 date fixed - 7th Oct 2017
+ “SATA supports ResMed’s “Reclaim Your Sleep” Campaign highlighting the need to raise awareness of the symptoms of sleep apnoea amongst women”
+ Medical Equipment Baggage Tag
+ Four-week Wait Campaign - NICE supports 4WW advice to primary care practitioners
+ Medical Alert Card
+ Fundraise for us via Just Giving
+ Members Area
+ Renew Membership online
Follow Us on Twitter
About Sleep Apnoea
Obstructive Sleep Apnoea (OSA) is a serious condition where the muscles in the throat relax during sleep causing the sufferer to temporarily stop breathing. If untreated it can occur hundreds of times in a night leading to daytime fatigue and other serious health problems. Once diagnosed it can be easily treated.
About the Trust
The Sleep Apnoea Trust is a patient support charity run by patients for patients. It is dedicated to increasing understanding, diagnosis and treatment of this serious illness. We help patients and their families with information and telephone helplines. We also fund research into the condition and act as a pressure group for patients.
Get Involved
Join us today and help us reach the people who need help to avoid a range of health problems, such as heart disease, strokes and depression. By joining the Sleep Apnoea Trust, making a donation or raising funds for us you will be helping us to support and inform patients and their families.
I'd like more information...
I may have Sleep Apnoea
I've just been diagnosed
I'm having difficulty with CPAP
I'm a Healthcare Professional
I'm from the Press / Media
Tell me more about ...
What SATA does
Members Area
Help Lines
Medical Alert Cards
Driving and Sleep Apnoea
Next Steps...
Join SATA
Make a Donation
Raise Funds for us
SATA is a UK Registered Charity (number 1056963)
We use cookies to help improve our site (see our cookie policy)
Copyright © 2016 - Sleep Apnoea Trust | Maintained by PowderSky
