Workstress
Skip to main content
What is Stress?
What can I do?
Help & Information
News
Contact
A voluntary organisation that campaigns to secure proper recognition of the damage caused by work-stress and to prevent work-related stress.
We aim to educate and raise awareness of work-stress and to improve legislation on health, safety and employment rights in the UK and Europe.
You can now download a booking form for our 2017 Annual Conference here!
About Us
All too often we hear of workers trapped in highly stressful environments, often also the subject of bullying, victimisation and harassment or discrimination. When we see how they are affected by their work (and sometimes by fellow workers), it is heart-rending to say the least.
Read more
Our Aims
The UK National Work Stress Network has as its fundamental aims:
To campaign for the better protection of workers against work-induced stress
Education and raising awareness.
Forging links with other organisations seeking to eliminate bullying, harassment and work-related stress.
Assisting groups tackling workplace stress.
Read more
Conferences
UKNWSN holds an annual conference sometime in November each year and you can access all the documents and photos (if available) from all our previous conferences on this page.
Read more
What's New
UKNSWN Annual Conference 2017
"Challenging poor employment practices - issues around work-stress in an increasingly demanding work environment"
Workers Memorial Day
28 April 2017
Retirement and wellbeing: what works?
Does retirement bring about happiness and boost wellbeing? What guarantees a smooth transition into retirement?
Facebook
UK National Work-Stress Network
https://www.tes.com/news/school-news/breaking-views/retain-our-best-teachers-we-need-stop-killing-them-planning-marking
One educationist comes up with a four-point plan to help schools tackle the teacher workload crisis
'To retain our best teachers we need to stop killing them with planning, marking and meetings'
6 days 10 hours ago.
UK National Work-Stress Network
https://www.tes.com/news/school-news/breaking-news/nearly-half-teachers-struggling-mental-health-survey-suggests
Expert says every school should have a counsellor to help deal with teaching's unique demands
Nearly half of teachers struggling with mental health, suggests survey
6 days 11 hours ago.
Twitter
1 day 10 hours ago
workstressnet
@workstressuk
https://t.co/7Ka1I1bP4k
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
2 days 20 hours ago
workstressnet
@workstressuk
No justice no peace  | London Hazards Centre https://t.co/bnXreqnsDG
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
2 days 20 hours ago
workstressnet
@workstressuk
Great to meet @JennyRathbone at the Senydd to talk about #workstress. Hoping we can do an event for @WelshAssembly_
this year!
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
Footer
Contact Us
Hazards Campaign
Information Pack
Legal
Site Map
