APNI - Association for Post-Natal Illness | Post Natal Depression
F G L X 3 Login
0207 386 0868 info@apni.org
Home
Leaflets
Leaflets
Post Natal Depression
The Baby Blues
Prevention and Recurrence
Advice for Carers
APNI Postal Information Request
Volunteer
Request a Volunteer
APNI Female Volunteer Form
APNI Male Volunteer Form
Help us
Help Us
Donate
Fundraising Events
About Us
Our Function
Our History
Past Committee Members
Links
Links
Mother and Baby Units
Books
Donors
News
Newsletter
Apni news
Raj’s Blog
Contact Us
– – Main menu – –Home
Leaflets - - Leaflets
- - Post Natal Depression
- - The Baby Blues
- - Prevention and Recurrence
- - Advice for Carers
- - APNI Postal Information Request
Volunteer - - Request a Volunteer
- - APNI Female Volunteer Form
- - APNI Male Volunteer Form
Help us - - Help Us
- - Donate
- - Fundraising Events
About Us - - Our Function
- - Our History
- - Past Committee Members
- - Links - - - - Links
- - - - Mother and Baby Units
- - - - Books
Donors
News - - Newsletter
- - Apni news
- - Raj’s Blog
Contact Us
WELCOME TO APNIYou are here:Home WELCOME TO APNI
Need Help Now?
Call us between 10.00am and 2.00pm on: 0207 386 0868 or chat with us using the chat box on the bottom left of the website.
Our normal office hours are: Monday to Friday from 10am to 2pm.
Christmas Opening Hours
The APNI office closes at 2pm on Weds 21st December and re-opens at 10am on Weds 4th January.
Please contact the Samaritans on 116 123 or Family Lives on 0808 800 2222 (they are closed on the Christmas bank holidays) if you need to speak to someone urgently.
If you are outside of the UK – you can contact Postpartum Support International (PSI) on the following website: www.postpartum.net
About PNI Symptoms
Most people today have heard the term ‘baby blues’ used to describe a mild, short, period of depression which many women experience after childbirth.
Fewer people are aware that as many as 10% of all recently delivered women develop postnatal depression. You are not alone in suffering.
Who We Are
The Association for Post-Natal Illness is the leading organisation in its field. It is a Registered Charity (No. 280510) and it was established in 1979 to:
– Provide support to mothers suffering from post-natal illness
– Increase public awareness of the illness
– Encourage research into its cause/nature
Can you help with this study on postnatal depression in fathers?
Bryan Moreton is a Trainee Clinical Psychologist at the Universities of Coventry and Warwick. The study involves 6-10 fathers with postnatal depression taking part in hour long interviews. The study has been approved by the Coventry University ethics committee and will be handled with due sensitivity and anonymity. This study is an attempt to address the lack of recognition in this area which will be of use in the future for other fathers experiencing this problem.
If you are a father suffering from postnatal depression and would be willing to help then please either call us on 0207 386 0868  or email us or contact Bryan Moreton directly at moretonb@uni.coventry.ac.uk
Apni You Tube channel.
Apni have started a Youtube channel. If you find any Youtube links that you feel would benefit those suffering from postnatal depression or their families please email them to us through our contact form.
Read our latest newsletter by clicking here
The Association provides a telephone helpline, information leaflets for sufferers and healthcare professionals as well as a network of volunteers (telephone and postal), who have themselves experienced postnatal illness. For a printed information pack send a s.a.e. to:-  145 Dawes Road, Fulham, London, UK, SW6 7EB or click on Leaflets on PNI for more information about PNI.
The work of the Association is essential as post-natal illness affects between 70,000 and 100,000 women and their babies in the UK every year. It is rightly called ‘the silent epidemic’.
Hi all, can any of our working mums or dads out there (or anyone you know) help raise much needed funds for APNI?
If your company donates to charity, would you be able to put our association forward.
We exist solely on donations so any help would be hugely appreciated! : THANK-YOU.
Apni Leaflets
The Association has produced a number of leaflets relating to PNI, both for mothers and the medical profession. Below are the two leaflets that we send to mothers or individuals who need information on the subject:-
Click here for The Baby Blues and PND (This leaflet is available in the following languages on request:- Bengali, Gujarti, Hindi, Urdu, Punjabi).
Click here for the Postnatal Depression leaflet.
The Association also has a ‘GUIDE TO PROGESTERONE FOR POSTNATAL DEPRESSION’ booklet. This is available on request.
Mr and Mrs J. A. Pye’s Charitable Settlement
The Association gratefully acknowledges the very generous support of Mr and Mrs J. A. Pye’s Charitable Settlement over the past 28 years. This support has enabled the Association to offer its services to many more sufferers, who otherwise we might not have been able to reach.The support of the Mr and Mrs J.A. Pye’s Charitable Settlement has enabled APNI to offer help to thousands of women over 28 busy years.
Volunteers
We urgently need to recruit women who have suffered post-natal depression and who are now better, to support mothers who are currently ill by phone or by e-mail. Please click here to request information about becoming a volunteer.
Thank you Lucy Rome!
Lucy ran 10k for each month in the last 10 months in order to raise much-needed funds for us and awareness of PND. MORE>
From sponsored walks to motorcycle rides across the Arctic we appreciate everything you can do. MORE
Emma Cadywould and Family
Lucie Holland has raised over £4,000 during the past two years on her Just Giving page set up in memory of her sister Emma Cadywould. Emma’s family, in particular Lucie, and her parents Mr and Mrs Holland and have been very generous contributors to the work of the Association and our profound thanks go to the whole family for their generous donations and fundraising efforts. Emmsie’s friends have also been busy raising money in her memory.
http://www.justgiving.com/MysisterEmma
Pandas (Mon - Sun
9am-8pm) 0843 28 98 401
Family lives
(24 hour helpline) 0808 800 2222
The Samaritans (24 hour helpline) 0845 790 9090
Newsletter Please sign up to our newsletter. Your email address stays (only) with us and we will provide you with useful information about Post Natal Illness (like some of the amazing fun things our fundraisers do). Sign up here.
Our Facebook Page
APNI NewsLucy Rome 10k challenge fundraiser for APNI December 20, 2016
F G L X 3
© 2016 APNI - Association for Post Natal Illness. All Rights Reserved.
Charity Registration Number: No. 280510 (Registered in UK) - web design by webwax ltd.
