The Combined Approach to Atopic Eczema - Atopic Skin Disease
atopic skin disease
the online community for practitioners and patients
Introduction
Conventional Treatment
Habit Reversal
Adults and Older Children
Younger Children
Welcome
Home
About Us
"Behavioural dermatology - The Combined Approach to atopic eczema"
VIDEO: A Behavioural Approach
Why AtopicSkinDisease.com?
What is atopic skin disease?
Friday Facts #25 The main types of eczema
From living with eczema to living without eczema
Habit Reversal Tip #19 Circumstantial Scratching
Topical Tip #12 Dry skin: prevention is better than cure.
Quality of Life & Atopic Eczema
Self-Help
Case Report:
Mark Gets Better with The Combined Approach
Interviews
Dr.B's Blog
FAQs
Contact Us
Atopic Skin Disease
Foreword
The Combined Approach to atopic eczema is a treatment programme
Atopic Skin Disease - A Manual for Practitioners
VIDEO - Live Without Eczema
Atopic eczema in the elderly
Live Without Eczema - The Patient Handbooks
Treatment protocols
Habit Reversal Tip #15 Essentials for habit reversal success
Up and down, as per usual
VIDEO: How do you scratch?
The eyes and atopic eczema
Atopic eczema in pregnancy
Favourite Places
Understanding acute atopic eczema
Topical Tips
Habit Reversal Tips
Friday Facts
Stress
Attitudes
Emollients
Topical steroids
Allergies
Food and atopic eczema
Share this page?
Share
Community
Members Noticeboard
The Forum
From the Clinic
Ask DrB
Psychodermatology
Habit Reversal Tip #14.
Scratching and atopic eczema: quantity v. quality
Habit reversal for passive pessimism
Continuously troublesome atopic eczema
Three-in-one: the hydrocolloidal gel dressing
Newsletters
Reinforcement Tips
Getting Treatment
Getting Training
Coping with difficulties: Adults & Older Children
Coping with difficulties: Younger Children and their Parents
The Dermatology Nurse and The Combined Approach to atopic eczema
Impulse control disorder
Comments Corner
Store
Shopping Links
Other Useful Links
Further Reading
STOP PRESS!
For the latest articles             click on:  RSS
Login
Email
Password
Remember Me
Join Now
Forgotten Password
Search the Site
Member Profiles
DRWS
View full Profile
View all Profiles
Edit your Profile
Google translate
Cookie Policy
Visiting this site involves cookies! To find out more pleaseclick on Cookie Policy
LATEST: Anna Pugh talks to DrB about pregnancy and atopic eczema   Think positively....
Atopic eczema or dermatitis, also called atopic skin disease, easily becomes complicated by the damage caused to skin by habitual scratching.
Then chronic eczema needs more than conventional treatment with moisturiser and topical steroids.
If the behaviour modification treatment habit reversal is added, treatment can be successful in only four weeks.
"There is no need to Live with Eczema -              there is now the possibility to Live without Eczema"                                                                                               Dr Peter Norén, Uppsala, SwedenINTRODUCTION....
"Behavioural Dermatology - the combined approach to atopic skin disease"
pp20-22 March 2011 EXCHANGEThe UK National Eczema Society Members Magazine. Behavioural medicine - of which behavioural dermatology is a part - links medicine with human behaviour to improve our understanding of physical illness, and therefore improve its treatment. Behavioural medicine takes account of the behaviour of everyone involved - practitioners and patients.The Combined Approach to atopic eczema is an example of behavioural dermatology. It combines a very simple behaviour modification technique - habit reversal - to eliminate habitual scratching and enable natural healing, together with optimised conventional treatment, to provide a very successful treatment programme.
Interested?
Read more now in this article from Exchange March 2011 pp 20-22
Discover how to enable natural healing
If you are interested to know more - become a member - join AtopicSkinDisease.comMembers are able to watch the video:
"LIVE WITHOUT ECZEMA"
where you follow the experience of one patient as she progresses through the treatment programme at Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, London
Members are able to consult the manual:
with its protocols for treatment, Handbooks for Patients, and references and suggestions for further reading.A member - practitioner or patient  -can also contribute comments and ask questions, and discover more about this effective treatment programme, with
Updates on each element of the treatment programme
Tips on Treatment
Interviews with experts
Suggestions for training
How to get treatment
and much more...I hope you find what you are looking forDr Christopher Bridgett
Just visiting?
What is special about AtopicSkinDisease.com?
☆ see FAQ: Why AtopicSkinDisease.com?
Have I got atopic skin disease?
☆ see FAQ: What is atopic skin disease?
Should I try habit reversal?
☆ see AskDrB: Will habit reversal training help me?
Will this help with a child with atopic eczema?
☆ see: Iman talks to DrB
The Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, London UKHome of The Combined Approach to Atopic EczemaEnabling natural healing
www.atopicskindisease.com is a self-funded membership website
We supporthttp://start-skin.org
On "The Combined Approach"...
"There is no doubt that The Combined Approach to eczema described here is effective and so will improve the quality of life for many patients with atopic eczema"Dr John Cotterill, Dermatologist
"The treatment programme is very simple, and is based on common sense"Dr Peter Norén, Dermatologist
"This programme has left my skin stronger, more versatile and most importantly more manageable than I can remember. A welcome break after 24 years."F.R., Patient 24 years old" ...it was striking how such a horrible and unpleasant experience could be easily dealt with by these really simple and straightforward measures..."J.H., Patient 62 years old "The programme is a complete success and has changed my life in a way I never thought possible! I am very grateful"D.E., Patient 23 years old
"Using The Combined Approach, the patient is empowered to take charge of their eczema, and stop it controlling their life"
Dr Valerie Dock, Family Physician
"He is now facing his teenage years without weeping sores. The programme is clear, logical and easy to use, and I cannot recommend it more highly. It has made a tremendous difference to his life - thank you : we are extremely grateful"Parent of A.L.,11 years old
"The Combined Approach is effective in reversing the distress and low self esteem of chronic atopic eczema - it gives patients both skills and knowledge to control their eczema, and to improve the quality of their life"Jill Peters, Dermatology Nurse Practitioner
" Since completing the course my skin is a lot healthier. There are relapses but these can be zapped as instructed. Overall my general well being and comfort have dramatically improved. Thank you"N.A., Patient 29 years old"I was sceptical before the treatment began but I’ve been amazed by the results. My skin is the best it has been in my life. It has without a doubt improved my quality of life – it’s also improved the quality of life of my partner who no longer has to put up with my scratching through the night!"E.M., Patient 20 years old   "At my advanced age I developed atopic eczema for the first time, and was soon frantic with itching and scratching. The Combined Approach really worked for me! I am not cured, but I am dramatically better. Now I only need daily moisturiser, with topical steroids for a day or so only every six to eight weeks."R.W., Patient 74 years old "Within a few days he was hardly scratching. It was quite remarkable."I.O., mother of 2 year old
Drawings by               Mats Böllner
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Contact
Sitemap
Login
Join Now
RSS
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2011-2016 Christopher Bridgett
- Powered by SubHub - Membership Site Software
