Autism, PDD, Asperger's: Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) Therapy
Share
|
Autism, PDD, Hyperlexia, Asperger's: treatment,
therapy, special education
Contents of  ABA
resources for recovery from the autistic disorders: autism,
PDD, hyperlexia, and Asperger's Syndrome. Information on
treatment and therapy (including applied behavior analysis, behavioral
intervention, behaviour modification, discrete trial training, or
"Lovaas therapy"), special education, early intervention, and child
disability resources.
Shop here to support the Federation for Children with Special Needs
Commissions from your purchases go to the Federation
Autism Asperger's Pub. 40%
Books and videos
Search Now:
Amazon.com 6%
Future Horizons 40%
Books, DVDs, and conferences
My Precious Kid 10%
Child ID and safety products
Model Me Kids 17%
Videos for modeling social skills
Page
updated Thursday, 14-Apr-2016 16:00:32 EDT
Links verified June 2014
All listings are
free - no paid advertising
I
comply with the HONcode
standard for health trustworthy information  [certification lapsed due to non-payment of verification fee]
Site privacy practices
Index
to ABA Resources Web site
(documents by me)
The following documents may be reproduced, translated, or
linked to, provided attribution is included and the text is not
substantially altered. For more information please write to hello@lovemyprovider.com.
For parents and professionals (general interest)
ABA Resources for
Recovery from Autism/PDD/Hyperlexia is the main resource page
for interventions based on applied behavior analysis. It lists
everything I've found to be helpful, and links all the pages listed
below.
What is ABA?
with links to similar pages
Why use ABA
research experiences and opinions for and against
Frequently asked
questions about ABA and autism
Principles of ABA
How can I get help for
my child? is a "form letter" about accessing special
education services
ABA service
providers consultants and professional services organizations
Schools claiming to
use ABA as a primary intervention
Educational
materials and program resources books, videos, software, and
Web sites
Developmental
evaluations and childhood screening
Special
education
Special education
attorneys and advocates
Health insurance,
Medicaid, other sources of financial assistance
Managing a
home-based ABA program
International
non-English ABA resources
Other autism
resources
Autism
"one Dad's view"
A failure of
special education (the Brookline/Newton MA early childhood
program) is a story that will be familiar to some, cautionary to others
Parents' and professionals' experiences - stories and
letters to me, and to Usenet news groups:
Most recent letters
from parents and professionals
More letters 1
More letters 2
More letters 3
Giving
lists autism and special education support organizations and
individuals seeking donations
Autism and ABA surveys
and research - contribute your experiences as a parent or
professional
Teaching and Learning
is my very brief notes on some of the factors that affect how quickly
our kids learn
Editorials
- published letters, broadcast editorial replies, and public testimony
Don't waste
time
Early special
ed can save children - and dollars - Boston (MA) Globe, April
1997
More to PDD
'success' story - Brookline (MA) TAB, July 1997
WCVB-TV March
1998
July 1998
testimony before the Massachusetts Joint Committee on Education
Massachusetts
Department of Education, April 1999
March
2000 testimony before the Massachusetts Joint Committee on Education
Special
ed budgets don't hurt regular ed budgets - Boston (MA) Globe,
April 2000
Who will let
him fail? (or, "Why most children don't get the help they
need"). There are many common excuses for denying your child the
education he deserves.
Site privacy practices
For professionals (business related)
Training,
Education, and Employment lists schools with programs in
behavior analysis, on-line courses, and professional employment
opportunities
Link to this Web site
(text and graphical links) - no permission needed, though I am happy to
hear from you
Translations (non-English)
Some of my documents have been translated with the kind
assistance of other parents.
Qu'est ce
que l'ABA? (What is ABA?)
Che cos'è l'ABA? Domande più frequenti
(FAQ)
Author index (documents by others)
Material by the following authors either appears in this Web
site with their permission, or is in the public domain. Unless
otherwise indicated, all material is copyrighted. Please contact the
author for permission to copy or distribute.
"Autistic & Proud" (pen name): A&P's usual lengthy post on
Son-Rise
Green, Gina: Who
is qualified to oversee intensive, comprehensive behavioral programming
for young children with autism/PDD?
Larsson, Eric, elarsson@lovaas.com:
Data-Based Research in
Support of Intensive Early Intervention and Intensive Early Intervention using Behavior
Therapy is No Longer Experimental (Microsoft Word)
Longenecker, Harold: Parental
stress - ABA and traditional special education programs
McEachin, John: What
does ABA have to offer for older children?
Sumlin, Jim and Megan (pseudonyms of parents): Detailed
records of a very successful ABA home program (originally published on
the ME-list). Save time and bandwidth by downloading the largest files
as a WinZip
file (371k instead of almost 1 megabyte).
Sumlin Program
Notes are a compilation of 1-3 page handouts, given
to the therapists as required reading prior to every session,
containing reminders of new and old goals, how to address problem
behaviors, and other tips for successful teaching (326k)
Teach Me to Play
covers the development of pretend play skills (327k)
Sumlin Social
Stories covers social development (213k)
White, Mary Jane: ABA
Legal Briefs (348k)
This document is rsaffran.tripod.com/index.html,
updated Thursday, 14-Apr-2016 16:00:32 EDT
Copy? right! 1998-2098  .
All content written by me may be redistributed
provided (1) my text is not substantially altered and (2) my authorship
is clearly attributed. Copyright otherwise remains with original
authors. How to link to this
site
This is a resource guide only, not therapeutic, diagnostic,
medical, or legal advice. I am not endorsing any individual,
organization, product, or service mentioned here, nor do my opinions
represent their views.
The information provided is designed to support, not replace, the
relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her
physician or other service providers.
Site privacy practices
