BBC News - Swine flu less lethal than feared
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Medical notes
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 16:41 GMT, Thursday, 10 December 2009
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Swine flu less lethal than feared
By Nick Triggle
Health reporter, BBC News
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Sir Liam told the BBC 'We've hit this virus very hard'
The swine flu pandemic is "considerably less lethal" than feared, chief medical officer Sir Liam Donaldson says.A study led by Sir Liam found a death rate of just 0.026% in those infected, the British Medical Journal reported. But he said the findings, based on a review of deaths to early November, did not mean the action taken in the UK was unnecessary. He pointed out two-thirds of the deaths were in groups that were now eligible for vaccination. The findings, reported by the British Medical Journal, come as the number of new cases continues to fall. In England there were 11,000 last week - down from 22,000 the previous week.
The first influenza pandemic of the 21st century is considerably less lethal than was feared in advance
Sir Liam Donaldson, chief medical officer
Fergus on Flu
Scotland also saw a fall from 12,300 to 8,900, while numbers in Northern Ireland and Wales have always remained much lower. The UK death toll now stands at 283. Sir Liam described the low death rate as "fortunate". "The first influenza pandemic of the 21st century is considerably less lethal than was feared in advance." Sir Liam also urged people to come forward for immunisation. A number of priority groups have been identified, including people with health problems and pregnant women, for the first wave of the programme. VaccinationBut only 2.3 million of the 9 million people eligible for vaccination in England have come forward so far. Sir Liam said the likely reason more were not being vaccinated was a legacy of the "junk science thrown at MMR" as well as the fact that people do not fear the virus. However, the government had better news over the vaccination of young children - the under fives are the next in line to get the jab. The programme looked to be in disarray earlier this week when ministers failed to agree a deal with the British Medical Association, the doctors' trade union, to get GPs to give the immunisations as they have been doing in the first wave. They said it was likely health visitors and district nurses would have to take over. But Ian Dalton, who heads up the government's flu planning, said many GPs were signing up on an area-by-area basis. He said agreements were in place for doctors in the North East and London to deliver the programme and he expected many more would be signed in the near future. "I don't think for most GPs this is about money, it is about protecting children."
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
SWINE FLU PANDEMIC
KEY STORIES
Flu experts 'link' to drug firms
NHS left with 34m swine flu jabs
WHO to review swine flu response
Child flu jab trial results out
Press swine flu briefing scrapped
Jump in global swine flu deaths
FEATURES AND ANALYSIS
Fergus On Flu
The latest developments in the pandemic
Did UK get it right?
Q&A;: About the virus
Q&A;: Swine flu vaccination
How to make a swine flu vaccine
Can masks help stop flu spread?
VIDEO AND AUDIO
What happened to the swine flu pandemic?
Swine flu 'is not yet pandemic'
How to make a flu vaccine
HAVE YOUR SAY
Swine flu: Your experiences
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
National Flu Service
Royal College of General Practitioners
Department of Health
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP HEALTH STORIES
Stem cell method put to the test
Hospitals 'eyeing private market'
Low vitamin D 'Parkinson's link'
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Removed Ghanaian dies of cancer
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
Dutch police break up pro-Erdogan protest
BBC News
High profile US prosecutor Bharara fired
BBC News
Seven nuns spotted at Seven Sisters
'Virtual airline' goes out of business
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
The girl who runs away from ambulances
Cave discovered during university dig
Unnamed page
One-minute World News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 72,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
