BBC NEWS | Health | UK swine flu vaccine 'approved'
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Medical notes
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 09:16 GMT, Friday, 25 September 2009 10:16 UK
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
UK swine flu vaccine 'approved'
Emma Wilkinson
Health reporter, BBC News
Swine flu vaccines are being tested in thousands of volunteers
The European drugs regulator has given the go-ahead for one of the UK's swine flu vaccines.An expert committee agreed that Pandemrix, made by GlaxoSmithKline, can be used in adults and children over six months old and pregnant women. The decision removes one of the last obstacles to getting the immunisation programme under way although licensing still needs to be formalised. The UK has bought 60 million doses of the vaccine. In addition, there are contracts for an as yet unapproved vaccine, Celvapan, produced by Baxter. It means the UK has provision for up to 132 million doses - enough for every person in the country. A vaccine made by Novartis, Focetria, has also been recommended for licensing by the European Medicines Agency - but this is not planned to be used in the UK.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Steve Field, Royal College of GPs: "It looks to be a very safe vaccine"
Final marketing authorisation for the vaccines still needs to be signed off by the European Commission and is expected "as soon as possible". The EMEA said they were working with Baxter on some ongoing issues about their vaccine but hoped to be able to resolve those next week. The vaccines have undergone an accelerated approval process as "mock-ups" of the vaccine had already been developed in preparation for a pandemic and tested in 6,000 people. Manufacturers have worked quickly to add the swine flu H1N1 strain to the mock versions. Early trial data had suggested good immune responses with just one dose of the vaccines.
We plan to start vaccination in October, subject to vaccine being licensed and manufacturers' delivery schedules
Department of Health spokesman
However, the EMEA is recommending two doses are given three weeks apart for both vaccines, but may revisit that decision as more clinical trials are carried out. Rising casesThe number of new cases of swine flu in England has almost doubled over the last seven days to 9,000, official figures show. In Scotland, the new weekly figures showed a slight increase from 6,180 to 7,034. Across the UK there have been 82 deaths. Although the figures are rising, they are as yet far short of the 100,000 cases a week seen in July. Officials are still predicting a second wave of swine flu as winter approaches. But they hope to begin a vaccination programme sometime next month.
VACCINE PRODUCTION
Like traditional seasonal flu vaccines, the GSK swine flu vaccine is being made in eggs
The H1N1 strain is injected into eggs where it multiples before being harvested, purified and chemically inactivated so it cannot cause flu but can prompt an immune response
The resulting viral particles are then tested and added to the vaccine
It can take up to two eggs to produce one dose of vaccine
The other method for making vaccines uses mammalian cell cultures to grow the vaccine - this is the approach being taken by Baxter
High-risk individuals and front-line NHS staff have been prioritised for the vaccine. Those eligible include anyone aged between six months and 65 years who usually gets the seasonal flu jab because of a chronic illness such as asthma, pregnant women, and people who live with those whose immune systems are compromised, such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. It will also be offered initially to people aged 65 who are at high-risk of complications because of an underlying illness. A further decision on who else may be vaccinated once these groups have been targeted is yet to be made. A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "This is a welcome step forward in our plans for tackling swine flu - but we are still dependant on production and delivery of sufficient vaccine to start protecting people. "We plan to start vaccination in October, subject to vaccine being licensed and manufacturers' delivery schedules. "This is not the Department of Health's schedule - it is led by the manufacturers." Professor Steve Field, chair of the Royal College of GPs, said practices needed to prepare to call in the high-risk groups for vaccination. "The scientists are saying it should be targeted at high-risk groups because the illness is mild but my understanding is that is being reviewed regularly. "My hunch is it will be rolled out to more people." SafetyConcerns have been raised about the safety of the vaccines given the speed of the approval process. But the EMEA stressed that decades of experience with seasonal influenza vaccines indicate that adding a new strain in should not substantially affect safety.
WHY TWO VACCINES?
The UK has agreed contracts for swine flu vaccine with GSK and Baxter
Having two contracts increases the number of doses available
Also because the Baxter vaccine is not made in eggs it can be used in people with an egg allergy
There are other differences between the vaccines -for example the GSK one contains an adjuvant
It minimises the risk of problems should one vaccine run into trouble during production or licensing
Both vaccines the Agency have recommended for licensing contain an adjuvant - a chemical which boosts the immune response - but this too has been tested in thousands of people, it said. Further clinical trials are being done and Pandemrix is being tested in 9,000 children, elderly and healthy adult volunteers. Data submitted to the regulator by GSK suggests the vaccine is generally well tolerated, with the most commonly reported side-effects being headache, joint pain, muscle pain, reactions at the site of the injection (such as pain and redness), fever and fatigue. The first results from a trial of the vaccine in Germany suggested a good response after one dose. The EMEA added that with all medicines, adverse events may be detected once the vaccine is used in large numbers of people. UK regulators have set up a special portal on the website for reporting any problems with swine flu medicines and vaccines when they begin to be used. Worldwide some 3,917 people have died from swine flu infections since the H1N1 virus was uncovered in April, World Health Organization figures show. The Americas region continued to post the highest number of fatal cases, at 2,948, while the Asia-Pacific region reported 702 deaths and Europe recorded at least 154 fatalities.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
SWINE FLU PANDEMIC
KEY STORIES
Flu experts 'link' to drug firms
NHS left with 34m swine flu jabs
WHO to review swine flu response
Child flu jab trial results out
Press swine flu briefing scrapped
Jump in global swine flu deaths
FEATURES AND ANALYSIS
Fergus On Flu
The latest developments in the pandemic
Did UK get it right?
Q&A;: About the virus
Q&A;: Swine flu vaccination
How to make a swine flu vaccine
Can masks help stop flu spread?
VIDEO AND AUDIO
What happened to the swine flu pandemic?
Swine flu 'is not yet pandemic'
How to make a flu vaccine
HAVE YOUR SAY
Swine flu: Your experiences
SERVICES
News alerts
Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
EMEA
Department of Health
National Pandemic Flu Service
NHS Choices
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP HEALTH STORIES
Stem cell method put to the test
Hospitals 'eyeing private market'
Low vitamin D 'Parkinson's link'
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Removed Ghanaian dies of cancer
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
Dutch police break up pro-Erdogan protest
BBC News
High profile US prosecutor Bharara fired
BBC News
Seven nuns spotted at Seven Sisters
'Virtual airline' goes out of business
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
The girl who runs away from ambulances
Cave discovered during university dig
Unnamed page
One-minute World News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 72,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
