Buteyko Breathing Association - The Official UK Buteyko Website
info@buteykobreathing.org
Facebook
Twitter
Facebook
Twitter
Home
About
The Association
History
Research & Guidelines
The Buteyko Technique
What is Buteyko?
What people say…
Buteyko for Children
Buteyko and Asthma
Buteyko Teachers
Find a Buteyko Teacher
Become a Buteyko Teacher
FAQs
Links
Contact
Select Page
Find out more about the Buteyko Breathing Method
A new approach to treating asthma
Read all about it!
Find a Qualified Buteyko Teacher
Search here
Welcome to the Buteyko Breathing Association
Who are we?
We are an association of healthcare professionals trained in Buteyko who wish to promote and share evidence based best practice of the Buteyko Breathing Technique.
What is the Buteyko Breathing Technique?
Buteyko (pronounced Bu-tay-ko) is a breathing technique which can ‘improve asthma symptoms, quality of life and reduce bronchodilator (blue reliever inhaler) requirement in adults with asthma’. It is not a cure for asthma but a complementary technique. This means that people using Buteyko should still continue take their inhalers as prescribed however research has shown that inhaler use can significantly reduce over time. Find out more about Buteyko and asthma…
What are Buteyko and BBT?
Buteyko and BBT are commonly used abbreviations for the Buteyko Breathing Technique.
The two words: ‘breathe correctly’ sum up the essence of Buteyko. The exercises promote nose-breathing and taking in an effective amount of air.
For example, many people with breathing problems tend to respond to everyday situations such as walking uphill or talking on the telephone by automatically breathing more than is necessary. This is called over-breathing or hyper-ventilating.
The Buteyko exercises provide you with the skills to be able to breathe correctly in these situations, and this prevents the development of a vicious cycle of over-breathing which can result in breathlessness, wheezing or coughing.
The technique originates from Russia and was named after the Russian doctor, Konstantin Buteyko, who first developed the techniques during the 1950s.
Find a BBA Buteyko Teacher
We have a list of Buteyko teachers who are situated around the world. In the UK our Buteyko teachers are found in the NHS as well as private practice. .  See more…
* BTS/SIGN Guideline on the Management of Asthma (2016), p.61.
Current UK Teachers
Find a teacher
BBA Annual Study Day March 2017
Early bird discount rate!
The BBA Annual Study Day will be held at the London School of Osteopathy on Saturday 25th March 2017. This year we have a fantastic line up of speakers covering Singing for Breathing, Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP), Myofascial Release and a service review of Buteyko in Paediatrics.
Book your place before the 31st January 2017 to qualify for the early bird discount. The study day is also open to non-members. Please see flyer and application form below for further information.
Downloads:
BBA Study Day 2017 Flyer
BBA Study Day 2017 Application Form
Facebook
Twitter
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
