British Chiropody and Podiatry Association - HomeBritish Chiropody and Podiatry AssociationHomeBCPA ConventionMembershipContact UsHome
Welcome to the British Chiropody and Podiatry Association
The British Chiropody and Podiatry Association (BCPA), formed in 1959, is the UK’s leading professional body for HCPC Registered Chiropodists and Podiatrists working in the Private Sector. The BCPA represents the interest of several thousand independent private Chiropodists and Podiatrists, the majority of whom have trained at The SMAE Institute (est. 1919) in Maidenhead, Berkshire.
Members of the BCPA are entitled to use the letters MSSCh (Member of the School of Surgical Chiropody) and MBChA (Member of the British Chiropody and Podiatry Association),
The Association of Foot Health Professionals is incorporated into the BCPA, entitling our Foot Health Professionals Members to use the letters MAFHP (Member of the Association of Foot Health Professionals) and offers the same unique level of support as it does to BCPA members.
In conjunction with The SMAE Institute, the BCPA represents several thousand members working in private practice, the NHS and education. The SMAE Institute recognises that Chiropodists and Podiatrists may move between sectors, and provides first class support at all stages of your career.
Since 2005 the only route available to become a chiropodist/podiatrist is vi a 3 year degree programme. The SMAE Institute provides high quality CPD for BCPA Members to ensure they comply with the CPD requirements of the HCPC. The SMAE Institute is also very proud to announce that their Diploma’s in Local Anaesthesia and Prescription Only Medicines have been added to the HCPC's list of approved programmes.
Having been established for many years we are well acknowledged and respected by thousands of Chiropodists and Foot Health Professionals, and thousands of very satisfied patients, as well as being recognised by the HCPC.
You can be assured that the advice and protection offered by the SMAE Institute and the BCPA are second to none so you can be confident in your career.
Superior Support - Why Settle For Less?
Click here to find details of all the benefits of Membership
The BCPA will continue to go from strength to strength
All Rights Reserved	HomeBCPA ConventionMembershipContact Us
