British Agricultural History Society - for the study of rural history, countryside history and landscape history
British Agricultural History Society
promoting the study of agricultural history and the history of rural economy and society
Join...
Search...
Get published...
Home
Events
Spring Conference
Other Events
Past Events
2016 Spring Conference
2015 Spring Conference
2014 Winter Conference
2014 Spring Conference
2013 Spring Conference
2012 Spring Conference
2011 Spring Conference
2010 Spring Conference
2009 Spring Conference
2008 Spring Conference
2007 Spring Conference
2006 Spring Conference
Conferences and Initiatives Fund
Publications
Agricultural History Review
Supplement Series
Rural History Today
Publications by members of the BAHS
LIBRAL
Introduction
All titles
Categories
Repositories
Guidelines and policies
For authors
On illustrations
On open access
For institutional subscribers
On use of PDFs by repositories
Editorial policy
Membership
About the BAHS
About...
Constitution
Officers and Committee
Conferences and Initiatives Fund
Minutes of AGMs
Accounts presented at AGMs
Work in progress
Archived news
Related links
Museums etc
Web sites
Contact us
Have a query about rural history or agricultural history? Ask it on our Facebook page.
Recommend us on Facebook: help to increase awareness of the BAHS.
Follow @BAHSoc
Follow us on Twitter: be sure to hear the latest news.
Tweet
What’s it all about?
The BAHS is the national society for the study of the history of agriculture, rural society and the landscape of Britain and Ireland. We publish a magazine, Rural History Today, as well as a scholarly journal, Agricultural History Review, and our conferences provide opportunities for historians (professional and non-professional) to meet, mix and exchange views in a friendly and sociable atmosphere.
New IHR Food History Seminar series
A Call for Papers
for a new IHR seminar series on Food History has been issued. The closing date is 24 February.
Postgraduate Workshop   * Announcement *
The BAHS is pleased to announce a Workshop for Postgraduate Research Students and Early Career Historians, to be held at the University of Nottingham on Wednesday 3 May 2017. The Call for Papers
closes on 31 March.
BAHS publications
Rural History Today issue 32 is now online, with articles about one of the RASE's magnificent paintings, The Agricultural Meeting
at Bristol in 1842 (Michael Brandon), the newly refurbished Museum of English Rural Life (Susanna Wade Martins), and Farming in East Kent in 1816 (Lucy Ann Curling).
Agricultural History Review volume 64 part 2, containing articles by David Crouch and Briony McDonagh, Maika de Keyzer and Eline Van Onacker, Vincent Geloso and Alexis Lacombe, Ted Collins, and James Bowen and John Martin, is now available online, and will soon be distributed to members.
View the locations mentioned in Collins’s paper on Edge tool making in Southern England, 1740-1960 in a full screen map. [Opens in a new window or tab.]
Volume 61 is now open-access from this site.
Membership
It’s so easy to join the BAHS because we are now set up to use PayPal.
Fill in an online form and pay via PayPal. You will also be able to renew your membership in this way.
LIBRAL
The Library of Irish and British Rural and Agricultural Literature
As a first step to creating this resource for rural historians, we have compiled a catalogue of 18th- and 19th-century literature on agricultural topics that have already been digitised and are available on a variety of Web sites. This is just the start.
We plan, over the coming months, to scan and digitise many more volumes ourselves, making them available here. The idea is to allow you to search across multiple volumes to find the topics that interest you.
Image of a Brittany cow from Dairy Stock by John Gamgee (1861), one of the many volumes already in LIBRAL
Work in Progress
The Work in Progress list, formerly published in Agricultural History Review, is now has over 70 entries, together with an online form for you to create your own entry, which will only take you a few minutes. Researchers listed here have reported other researchers contacting them as a result, making it a valuable resource.
Funding opportunities
We have a fund available to support otherwise unfunded Conferences and Initiatives. If you are considering holding a conference, workshop, special meeting or something similar, why not apply?   We also offer bursaries to student members who want to attend our conferences and other meetings supported by the Society.
Spring Conference 2017
The Spring Conference will be held at Plumpton College, near Lewes, Sussex, 3 to 5 April 2017. The programme includes a trip to the Weald and Downland Museum.
Book now!
Recent publication
David Hey, The Grass Roots of English History: Local Societies in England before the Industrial Revolution, published by Bloomsbury in May 2016, has been reviewed by Richard Hoyle, who writes: ‘The present book is a summation of David’s approach. What it amounts to is a statement of a distinctive approach to history. It is not economic history. Nor is it history as it is taught in any undergraduate syllabus known to me (which is a statement of regret as well as fact). It is a statement of what pre-modern (both medieval and early modern) local history ought – or perhaps might – be.’ Read more in Reviews in History.
There is a 10% discount for buying it online.
Recent publications from Routledge
Agriculture in Capitalist Europe, 1945–1960: From food shortages to food surpluses, edited by Carin Martiin, Juan Pan-Montojo and Paul Brassley.
Observing Agriculture in Early Twentieth-Century Italy: Agricultural economists and statistics, by Federico D’Onofrio.
Transforming the Countryside: The Electrification of Rural Britain, edited by Paul Brassley, Jeremy Burchardt, Karen Sayer.
Property Rights in Land: Issues in social, economic and global history, edited by Rosa Congost, Jorge Gelman, Rui Santos (eds).
The Farmer in England, 1650–1980, edited by Richard W. Hoyle, is now available in paperback or as an ebook.
Coming soon
University of Hertfordshire Press announces the forthcoming publication of The World of the Small Farmer: Tenure, profit and politics in the early-modern Somerset Levels, by Patricia Coot, the latest volume in the Studies in Regional and Local History series.
This detailed and original study of early-modern agrarian society in the Somerset Levels examines the small landholders in a group of sixteen contiguous parishes in the area known as Brent Marsh.
These were farmers with lifehold tenures and a mixed agricultural production whose activities and outlook are shown to be very different from that of the small ‘peasant’ farmers of so many general histories.
Patricia Croot challenges the idea that small farmers failed to contribute to the productivity and commercialisation of the early-modern economy.
While the emergence of large capitalist farms was an important development, these added to the production of existing small cultivators, rather than replacing them. The idea that only large-scale, specialized farmers were involved in agricultural progress, or that their contribution alone was enough to account for the great increase in food production by the late 17th century is questioned; small farmers continued to make a living, contributed to the market, and survived alongside the new, bigger farms.
Announcements
Rural History 2017, the Third conference of EurHO, will be held in Leuven, Belgium, 11-14 September.The call for papers is now closed.
The Centre for the Investigation of Transnational Encounters and the Irish Centre for the Histories of Labour and Class are delighted to announce that their conference, Agrarian Reform and Resistance in an ‘Age of Globalization’: The Euro-American World, 1815-1914 will be held at the National University of Ireland, Galway, 2-3 June, 2017. The call for papers is now closed.
The British Agricultural History Society is Registered Charity 251851  Contact us   © British Agricultural History Society, 2012. All rights reserved [last updated: February 2017]
