themapp.co.uk
Home
Start-Up
Growth
Practitioner
Corporate
Content Creation
Products
Available Now
Coming Soon
Of Interest
About Us
The Team
Contact
MAPP
Start Up
Growth
Practitioner
MAPP Start Up has been created to help start ups of all kinds to develop simple, quick and effective plans.
Using the experience and knowledge of hundreds of companies who have gone through the process before, MAPP Start Up asks you all the questions you will need to answer as you start out.
Using MAPP Start Up you will rapidly be able to create and communicate your plan and then monitor its implementation whoever you are collaborating with.
read more
MAPP Growth is focused on assisting organisations with significant growth ambitions that need to have a solid and flexible plan as they transform to meet new challenges.
MAPP Growth involves all the key players in the organisation in creating an agreed and deliverable plan which can be regularly reviewed and modified as the environment changes.
MAPP Growth helps you keep a close eye on what has, as well as what still needs to be achieved.
read more
MAPP Practitioner training has been developed to sit alongside and support existing trusted advisers to help them develop a more in-depth understanding of their customer and to deliver a more consistent coaching and mentoring service.
MAPP Practitioner training is free to attend! You can book your place here now!! Or follow the link below and learn more about what’s involved.
read more
MAPP Corporate is used by a wide range of corporations that are looking to formalise, communicate and monitor key processes within their organisations.
In areas as diverse as Care Pathway mapping through to franchise implementation, MAPP Corporate provides a simple and quick way to view progress, interrogate evidence and ultimately audit any complex and high value process that the organisation has undertaken using a standard browser.
read more
MAPP products available now:
MAPP Managing in a Recession
Managing a business through difficult economic times is one of...
MAPP Negotiation
MAPP Negotiation provides teams with an effective way of reviewing...
MAPP Start-Up
MAPP Start Up has been created to help start ups of all kinds...
MAPP Growth
MAPP Growth is focused on assisting organisations with significant...
MAPP Customer Retention
MAPP Customer retention has been produced to help teams create...
How MAPP Works
Discuss and AgreeVisualiseCommunicateMonitor
MAPP breaks down large complex processes into smaller manageable steps which can be easily discussed and agreed by the planning team.
MAPP supplies all the prompts for discussion of each step and allows the team to make each one either fit their context or be discarded
MAPP provides a simple visual way to show how all the steps fit together to create a path from the starting point to the agreed goal.
Using hexagons to represent each step MAPP allows team to create and modify this path, adjusting it as the team meet new challenges.
Once the plan has been created it can be transferred online and shared with everyone involved in implementation.
The MAPP cloud-based service, provides secure online access to the plan and shows each person what steps and tasks they are responsible for and where they fit within the overall context.
The MAPP online service allows each person to easily and quickly update their progress on each step and task, with the ability to link each step or task to relevant documentation and resources for further information or auditing.
It also provides a simple way to demonstrate what overall progress is being made towards the goals and what issues may be holding back successful completion.
Creating Content for MAPP
What content can be used with MAPP?
MAPP is used to break down complex processes into small manageable steps and as such can be used with a wide range of content. If the content helps someone understand the key steps that need to be taken to complete a complex plan then it can probably be used with MAPP. Examples of existing content include general sets on growth or start-up or more specific ones on carbon reduction or HR processes.
How do I get my content onto MAPP?
Getting your content onto MAPP is very easy and involves you completing a simple spreadsheet, that you can download here,that identifies and describes each step in your process. Each step can be linked to further information and even linked back to you as the content expert. When you have your content ready, you send it to us for checking and if there are no changes we load it up immediately and it’s then available to browse by all visitors.
How much does it cost?
If you want to post your MAPP content in electronic form only the process is free. You probably know best how much your content is worth so we leave pricing up to you. Maybe you will give it away for free to get your name out there, or maybe you know exactly how much someone is prepared to pay to get access to your knowledge and experience. On each transaction you retain 70% of the income and we keep 30%.
Who owns my IP when it's on MAPP?
As you would expect, you remain the owner of all content you load up onto MAPP and you have the right to remove it at any time. We only review content for errors and to cover us for standard content infractions.
Go to your shopping cart
MAPP: Stay Connectedrsstwitterlinkedinfacebookflickr
Start-Up/
Growth/
Practitioner/
Corporate/
Content Creation/
About Us/
FAQs/
Contact/
Copyright © The Applied Knowldege Network Ltd, Privacy Statement Terms and Conditions.
Back to top
