Mostyn Estates | Property Llandudno, North Wales
Home
About
Estate Management
Community Activities
Our Heritage
Publications
Tourism & Leisure
The Team
Commercial
Properties Available
Tenant Information
Insurance
Shopping
Residential
Properties Available
Tenant Information
Insurance
Holiday Cottages
Properties
Rural
Farms
Great Orme
Sporting
Insurance
Tenant Information
Mostyn Kitchen Garden
Forestry
Sawmill
Firewood
Forest Management
Biomass Boiler
News
Contact
TOURISM & LEISURELlandudno's immaculate seafront, gracefully framed by two headlands, is a seaside classic.Read More
RETAIL PARKSOver 350 retail units within Llandudno commercial centreRead More
SHOPPINGWe believe passionately in working with premium retailers.Read More
VIBRANT HIGH STREET92% of shops occupied in LlandudnoRead More
FARMING5,300 acres of countryside in North WalesRead More
HOLIDAY COTTAGESConwy Lodge is a unique lodge cottage situated in a tranquil location on the periphery of Llandudno less that two miles from the town centre.Read More
WELCOME TO MOSTYN ESTATES
Mostyn Estates Limited is a private limited company which manages the interests of the Mostyn family across North Wales and elsewhere. The principal areas of activity are its commercial, residential and agricultural holdings within Llandudno, together with its agricultural estates based round Rhewl and Tremostyn, Flintshire.
COMMERCIAL
Mostyn Estates leases and manages a large commercial property portfolio from Llandudno through to Flintshire.
Read More
RESIDENTIAL
The Estate includes a number of cottages houses and flats within Llandudno and a number of rural cottages near to Glanwydden and on the Flintshire estate.
Read More
SAW MILL
Structural grade Oak beams, joist, lintel and fireplace beams are offered with full traceability certificates.
Read More
GREAT ORME
The Great Orme is a prominent headland, which lies at the north-western tip of the peninsula near Llandudno.
Read More
FIREWOOD
All Mostyn firewood is harvested from our sustainably managed woodlands.
Read More
FARMS
The portfolio of holdings ranges from small holdings with less than 100 acres to farms with over 600 acres.
Read More
A KEY COMMERCIAL CENTRE WITHIN NORTH WALES
It is a location of choice for a large number of independent and high street multiple retailers. The town has been able to expand its facilities to meet the needs of today’s traders and shoppers whilst still retaining a vibrant town centre.
4,500,000
Visitors to Llandudno & Conwy annually
350
Llandudno Centre Retail Units
10,200
Llandudno Visitor Bed Spaces
OUR HERITAGE The Estate and Mostyn Family have a rich heritage that stretches back many hundreds of years. See more of our heritage.
Read More
ABOUT US The principal areas of activity are its commercial, residential and agricultural holdings within Llandudno, together with its agricultural estates based round Rhewl and Tremostyn, Flintshire.
Read More
Latest NewsHuge crane at work in Bangor Mostyn Hall Opening Times 2017 Autumnal sunrise over Mostyn Hall MV Balmoral Summer Storm Clouds Over Mostyn Blooms around Mostyn Hall
CONTACT Mostyn Court
2 Mostyn Street
Llandudno
LL30 2PS
Telephone: +44 (0) 1492 876 977
Copyright All Rights Reserved
