Nick Murrall - Project Management in Life Sciences
Nick Murrall
Software Project Management in Life Sciences
Home
Experience
Skills
Services
Contact
MENU
Home
Experience
Skills
Services
Contact
Bridging the gap between IT specialists and application users
When implementing today's complex pharmaceutical software solutions it is key to ensure your user expectations are met by the systems. To achieve this you need to have the people with the right experience to bridge this gap, compromising could seriously affect the outcome and or cost of the project.
I can bring many years of experience working in the life science domain managing the development and implementation of complex software applications, enabling me to see both end user and IT supplier view points.
The Right Skills...
Be it basic project management skills, software development management or Validation to GAMP principles I a member of the Research Quality Association (RQA) and have the experience and skills that can help ensure your project is a success.
Get the right skills
At The Right Time...
By using services on a contract, as needed basis, you can bring the skills to the project at the right time and for the period you need them. This removes the need to recruit a full time specialist whose use after the project may be limited or use existing, but inexperienced, staff.
Make the deadline
For The Right Cost...
Applying the right skills to your project at the right time and at the right basic cost not only reduces baseline staff costs but reduces overall project costs by making the overall project team more efficient and attaining the project goals quicker.
Save project costs
Project Management
Bringing an eclectic mix of techniques and experience that can help your project, large or small run smoothly.
Agile/DSDM
Waterfall
Prince2
RUP
Off-Shore Teams
Validation
Domain Knowledge
Experienced in relating to and working with Scientists and Informaticians in all disciplines
Bio-Informatics
Chemo-Informatics
Clinical Studies
Drug Safety
Regulatory
GAMP
Application Experience
Experience with software systems in all segments of the Drug discovery and development pipeline.
Biological Data Resources
Experimental Data Capture
Modelling/Discovery
eClinical Data Capture
Pharmacovigilance applications
Regulatory Tracking
Medical Information
Copyright © 2015 - Nick Murrall
