Welcome to NW Brown | NW Brown
Home
About Us
News
FAQs
Contact Us
People Finder
Search
Client Login
Select All Areas
NW Brown Group Ltd
Accounts
Compliance
Corporate Benefits
Financial Planning
Investment Management
Our Offices
Financial Planning
Investment Management
Pension Planning
Corporate Benefits
Welcome to NW Brown
As one of the leading financial services groups in East Anglia we provide expert, bespoke, professional advice to personal and corporate clients in the Eastern region and beyond. Whilst all our clients are different, they all enjoy the benefits that only truly independent advice can bring. We are able to cover the entire market and have the ability to access a complete range of investment options, products and advice.
At NW Brown you will find all the knowledge and expertise you need to help you achieve your financial objectives. Whether it is to create a bespoke investment strategy, an employee benefit programme or to find the right pension or mortgage product, we take the time to understand what you need and to provide solutions that are realistic and cost-effective.
Working from offices in Cambridge and Norwich, we pride ourselves on our ability to provide sensible advice and management. We can do this because the business is independently owned. We are used to putting the interests of the clients first.
Latest News
Stocks in Focus: Smiths Group
This week I am taking a closer look at the global technology company, Smiths Group, 18 months on from the change of its top management team. The group operates across five separate divisions that p... Read More
Cambridge Index lifts 0.2%
The Cambridge index added 0.2% or 40.4 points to finish at 23,277.5, as the index heavyweights such as DS Smith and Kier Group posted weekly gains to their share prices. Berenberg Bank reconfirmed ... Read More
Stocks in Focus:
Reckitt Benckiser / Mead Johnson
It emerged last week that Reckitt Benckiser, the consumer goods company known for its health, hygiene and home products, is in advanced talks to buy Mead Johnson in a deal worth $16.7bn, the second... Read More
Close to retirement?
Find out about annuities, drawdown and more
Work-based Pensions & Auto Enrolment. Are you in? We're all in
Find out More
Could you benefit from tax-friendly childcare vouchers
Find out more
Protection for your family, peace of mind for you
Make sure you're covered with life, illness and injury insurance
Company Report Library
View the latest company reports and access the library.
Library latest
Privacy Policy
info@nwbrown.co.uk
01223 357131
The following subsidiary of NW Brown Group Ltd (registered in England no. 3917262) is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide regulated services: NW Brown & Company Ltd (no. 191123, registered in England no. 3915461) | VAT Registered 897 3963 47
NW Brown & Company Limited is covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. If you have a complaint, please contact us in the first instance so that we can put things right. This does not affect your right to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Further information about the Financial Ombudsman Service can be found at their website: http://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
© Copyright 2017
Website Design & Development by Accent Design
Cookies on the NW Brown Group Website
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the NW Brown Group website. Find out how the NW Brown Group website uses cookies.
Oh No! Javascript has been disabled
We're sorry, but the website requires Javascript. Please turn on Javascript within your browsers preferences.
If this is a problem then please contact us, we'll be happy to help.
