One Tree Books - Quality Petersfield Booksellers
One Tree Books
National Bookseller of the Year 2010
Recommended Reads
Madeleine’s Kitchen @ One Tree Books
Events
Book Club
Previous Book Club titles
Shop Online
Tim’s Blog
Contact
One Tree Books is an independent bookshop established in 1994. Staffed by experienced booksellers who love books, we aim to offer the highest quality of service. Whether you want to visit our first floor for sheet music, reference, games and jigsaws, relax with a coffee in Madeleine's cafe or just browse our comprehensive range of fiction, we look forward to your visit. We are able to order any British book in print and are happy to send it anywhere in the world. We also stock a broad range of greetings cards, wrapping paper, stationery, jigsaws and board games, both traditional and new
Bookshop Opening Hours
Mon-Sat 9am - 5pm
Madeleine's Cafe Opening Hours
Mon-Sat 9am - 4:30pm
Latest book news: We have just received more stock of One Bird Flying by local poet Monica Ditmas – pick up your copy now!
Follow us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/onetreebooks Twitter:https://twitter.com/_onetreebooks
Call us on 01730 261199   email us: mail@onetreebooks.com
Latest News
January resolutions
It is coming to that time of year when the earnest declarations of New Year resolutions start to fade.  For most people it is the intention to eat and drink less and exercise more that hits the buffers but for the bookish it may be the desire to read more…
Read More →
When an author dies..
When an author dies, publishers are quick to republish their backlist – with no one to promote their books this may be the last chance to get their writer to the attention of potential readers.  For the book buyer it is a reminder about that author you always meant to…
Read More →
World Book Day 2016
Recent pictures in the press of World Book Day in schools have majored on pupils dressed up as book characters for obvious reasons – children wearing funny colourful outfits make for good photographs.  The reality in a lot of schools is quite different who see it as an opportunity to…
Read More →
Off Work Pt.2
Historical fiction varies just as widely in quality as any other genre. It swings from the brilliance of Hilary Mantel or Patrick O’Brian to the most banal of romances. At their best they offer a view into another world but even the straightforward ones give a glimpse into the past….
Read More →
Off Work Part 1..
Being off work is a great excuse to catch up with the reading.  Unfortunately hospital is not a brilliant place for concentrating on serious fiction but it is a good test for thrillers – can they distract and entertain? The new Lee Child, Make Me, is some way off his…
Read More →
Trends
A journalist rang the other day to ask what everybody was reading this summer.  There are always trends going on in publishing but because of the time lag between writing and the finished copy arriving in bookshops, an avalanche of copycats arrive just too late to sell in the quantities…
Read More →
Visit the Book Doctor
A great gift for anyone who loves reading, we offer to send a personally selected book once a month anywhere in the UK.
We have a six or twelve month service, please ask a member of staff for more details and prices.
Book Appointment
Copyright One Tree Books 2015
Invert Theme By SketchThemes
