PAXT Ltd
Home
Contact Us
PAXT in Africa
PAXT in Eastern Europe
PAXT in The Middle East
PAXT in India
PAXT Engineering News
"PAXT are highly regarded by In Music for their professional approach, tireless efforts and wealth of expertise they offer in support of our brands in the Sub Saharan African market.
Their understanding of complex shipping, payment and business terms in this region coupled with a desire to consistently exceed their goals and improve the position of the brands within these markets, ensures that business is nurtured from the ground up with their locally appointed partners." Richard Seymour, Executive Vice President, International Operations, inMusic Brands
"PAXT do a great job for Allen & Heath in Sub Saharan Africa, the Middle East and in India.
Their knowledgeable staff and their unflappable approach to problem solving combine to provide high value in these somewhat difficult markets - and have been an integral part of Allen & Heath's growth over the last few years."Debbie Maxted, Sales and Marketing Manager, Allen & Heath
"As emerging markets become more important to global business it is vital to have access to local knowledge and expertise. PAXT has outstanding capabilities in this regard and, having proven their management skills in Eastern Europe I am delighted to have them on board developing our sales strategy in Africa. Quality, Service and Commitment is what we stand for. PAXT embodies this by reputation, word and action."Joe Pham, CEO, QSC
"Our long standing partnership with Paxt in the various developing markets they manage for us has been a successful one. They manage to generate consistent sales and provide the markets with a coherent Marshall focused message"John Ellery, Managing Director, Marshall Amplification
"Focusrite and Novation are premium brands in their respected fields, and when I look for partners to represent them across the world, upholding this philosophy is key. PAXT have shown me great drive, passion and enthusiasm in their work and have quickly become a very valuable partner across Sub-Saharan Africa. They have great experience in taking brands into developing markets and delivering results. Working with them is a pleasure and I will look forward to continued success in our partnership for the years to come." Nick Venables, EMEA Sales Manager, Focusrite & Novation
Based in the UK, PAXT works in emerging markets to provide our brand clients with a single, proven, variable cost distribution solution for the developing world, while providing local dealers, distributors and customers with world-class music and pro audio technology.
We establish and manage effective distribution channels, using our unrivalled experience in the individual regulations, import documentation and financial transacting requirements of even the smallest territory, to deliver significant combined revenues in markets that brand owners might otherwise find difficult to exploit.
We also work to promote products and assist dealers and distributors in supporting their customers at a local level, through product training, technical and marketing support.
Latest News
Estonian National Museum Opens Using QSC Sound System
RGB Baltic Install Q-SYS as Main Control System
Read More...
Hard Rock Cafe Tbilisi Rocks with QSC
A complete QSC system is installed into major brand.
Read More...
