BBC NEWS | UK | Wales | Job bully fear over credit crunch
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 06:44 GMT, Friday, 7 November 2008
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Job bully fear over credit crunch
A charity says one in four people will be bullied during their working lives
Bullying in the workplace could increase because of the credit crunch, it has been warned.
Experts at the Centre for Research on Workplace Behaviours at the University of Glamorgan said job insecurity fears could lead to more bullying.
The warning comes on Ban Bullying Day at Work and as the new research centre is launched.
It is feared people will be less likely to complain of bullying because of concerns they could lose their job.
The research centre at the university, in Treforest near Pontypridd in south Wales, plans to look at the causes and effects of workplace bullying.
Centre co-director Professor Michael Sheehan said he expected the economic crisis to cause more bullying at work.
"I would certainly say [I would expect to see] a significant increase in behaviour like bullying and harassment," said Mr Sheehan.
Have Your Say
Bullies are unhappy people at their core and will continue their almost evil behaviour all their sad lives( some people do change). We all have to be protected fron bullies and stand up to them when we feel strong and protected enough
David
"At times of organisational change when it needs to be done quite rapidly, people will adopt whatever means to achieve an end.
"A manager might say 'we need to put in more effort at this time' and they will use phrases like 'just look at the dole queues".
"They will use those subtle type of threats."
The Andrea Adams Trust, which raises awareness about workplace bullying and is leading the Ban Bullying at Work Day, estimated that at least one in four people would be bullied during their working lives.
The more job insecurity there is, the more bullying that will come out
Lyn Witheridge, The Andrea Adams Trust
Lyn Witheridge, chief executive and founder of the trust, is concerned how the current economic situation will affect relations in the workplace.
"It's a horrendous situation at the moment," she said.
"Bullies will target those that are a threat to them in some way and they will use their power to remove the threat to them.
"The more job insecurity there is, the more bullying that will come out."
Wales TUC general secretary Martin Mansfield said economic uncertainty could also make people less likely to complain about a manager if they feared for their job.
"However, workplace bullying is a complex issue and no one factor causes bullying and no one type of person is a bully," he said.
'Ignoring people'
"It must be recognised that bullying is not just a question of an individual picking on someone weaker or more vulnerable than them.
"Often it is a symptom of the culture within the organisation."
He added that in this year's survey of TUC safety representatives, bullying overtook long hours as the fourth most identified factor causing stress.
Mr Sheehan said he hoped the work of the research centre, part of the University of Glamorgan's business school, would improve relationships in the workplace.
"What we try to do is research in the companies themselves," he said.
"We did one with a public sector organisation in Wales just recently which did show that mostly it was a good place to work but with some bullying.
"But most of that bullying was coming from the clients."
Bullying at work
At least one in four people will be bullied at some point during their working lives
40% of UK organisations do not have an effective policy on bullying
Every year 18.9m working days are lost to industry as a direct result of workplace bullying
Workplace bullying costs the UK economy £6bn every year
93.1% of personnel staff say that bullying is happening in their own organisations
Source: The Andrea Adams Trust
He said bullying could take many forms, although it was mostly "downwards", carried out by managers and supervisors on more junior staff.
"[There are] all sorts of things from yelling and screaming to finger pointing to thumping the desk, ignoring people and not asking them to meetings or denying them holiday leave," he said.
Methods of bullying vary between men and women but Mr Sheehan said the patterns were established in the playground.
"Men are more in your face shouting, yelling, screaming, finger pointing, some pushing.
"With women it's more subtle like excluding [people]. Don't invite them to a party or a sleepover and it's very similar in the workplace."
In another report from the Chartered Management Institute, employers are accused of failing to tackle the issue of bullying effectively.
The study suggests that poor management skills lie at the heart of the problem and warns UK organisations to educate their staff or risk long-term damage to business performance.
The report, which is based on the views of nearly 1,000 people, found that 70% blame a lack of management skills for bullying behaviour.
One in three respondents also claimed their organisation could not deal with the issue properly.
Here are a selection of your experiences - you told us more viaHave Your Say
I have worked a company in which bullying by the senior directors and line managers has been the norm. The company was a small law firm who were fully aware of the bullying taking place but chose to ignore it. I was forced into taken action as other colleagues who were also being bullied would not. Despite going through a grievance process the situation was left unresolved and I resigned shortly thereafter.
This did make the company look at the situation and the senior director was eventually ousted - too little too late for me though...
Anon, North
Bullying is rife in supermarkets, its the norm there. Thats why staff look so sullen.
dmc, cheshire
I was bullied at work in several different ways. Most of my job responsibilities were taken away from me after the my boss was fired with only a few hours notice. I was a supervisor but my staff reported to my boss, I was forced to literally work with both hands tied behind my back. If I wanted time off I literally had to fight for it. My boss in a meeting said she had a dream about having a go at me. I was given new jobs which really were beyond me as another tactic. It got worse so I had depression and stress recorded at my doctors and I was building up a case for unfair dismissal. My doctor signed me off for 2 weeks with depression even without seeing me because he knew how I was feeling. Shortly afterwards the company offered me voluntary redundancy(something they said would never do) and after 3 days deliberation I took it. I now teach driving and am far happier than I ever was in my 45 years in an office. They could not sack me because I knew too much about the law and at times worked on most of their legal cases even though it was not what I was employed to do.
Derek Smith, Romford,Essex
I and my clerical colleagues who all did the same job were frequently criticised and belittled by our manager, constantly emailing us about "complaints" that were always our fault (no one elses), constantly changing procedures every time a situation arose that did not fit, reminded us regularly of budget constraints that had to be adhered to "or jobs will be at risk", and similar negative, non supportive behaviour. The gap between her demands that everyone should be perfect, and the real world was really quite shocking. I now have a job with a boss that is a real person and not an uptight control freak heading for a nervous breakdown and am much happier as a result.
anon, north west
I experienced a lot of bullying and discrimination when I was registered disabled because I had special needs and was gifted as well.
This caused many problems where I would get highly emotional with my boss but I spoke my mind and didn't care about the risk of losing my job because I was forced into this employment and didn't particularly like the organisation anyway.
John R Jones, Preston, Lancashire
I have experienced workplace bullying at first hand. Happily I was not the victim but it did prompt me to read the literature on bullying and its' many forms.
You need to read these books but, basically, the outcome is usually the same i.e. the victim loses out because management don't have the experience or guts to tackle the problem head on and usually 'find no concrete evidence that bullying has taken place'
The victim ends up leaving and within 24 hours the bully has already earmarked their next victim.
Tony Kelly, manchester
I experienced bullying in the workplace ,it gave me a nervous breakdown and scarred me permanently,people seem to think because they have a "higher"position ,they can say what they want ,bullying is part of British culture though
shuan, stoke on trent
A boss tried to bully me once, i broke his nose and went and found another job.
bob, Gwent wales
In my last job I was bullied quite heavily by my team manager. She was very subtle about it all and I dreaded everyday at work. I was kept out of the loop on everything the team did and dreaded having to go into her office when I needed to discuss a file with her.
When it came clear she was bad mouthing me to the owner of the firm I decided enough was enough and raised a grievance and asked to change to a different team. Sadly as she had been in the job so long it was ignored and the situation got worse.
Finally the company sacked me just before I completed a years service and managed to get some employment rights.
Without reforming the current employment legislation there is nothing that some of us can do. It's always the victims who suffer and the bullies continue to get away with it.
Anon, Swansea, Wales
I've witnessed bullying where managers reprimand their staff for doing what they themselves do on a daily basis, moving targets at the last minute before more reprimands for not hitting the targets, belittling their staff in front of others and making inappropriate comments and jokes about everybody's personal lives.
The managers' managers can't do anything because they're afraid of the bullies themselves! Experiencing such an atmosphere in an office environment can really drain a person of all their enthusiasm... but then that resulting lack of enthusiasm will be punished with threats of losing jobs.
Rather Not Say, UK
I was recently bullied by my line manager who got away with it because their boss backed them all the way. They even committed slander. As a result for the first time in my 20 year working life I had to attend a disciplinary and took long term sick leave. The manager was so arrogant that they even denied me the right to try and resolve issues by refusing workplace mediation.
Anon,
You may be assured that it is not just employees who experience bullying. As an employer, I experienced bullying in the form of annonymous abusive emails and text messages, silent phone calls, abusive notices placed in semi-public places, theft of personal items from within the office and so on. Had it not been for the fact that my wife was a Behaviour Manager I would not have appreciated that this was a form of bullying which I now understand rears its ugly head in many subtle, but nonetheless corrosive, guises.
Colin, Cumbria
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
South East Wales
Find out more about what is going on across the region
SEE ALSO
Workplace bullying centre launch
17 Sep 08 |
South East Wales
'Millions bullied' in workplaces
05 Sep 08 |
UK
Workplace unhappiness 'growing'
01 Sep 08 |
Business
Charity warns on bullying at work
17 Jan 08 |
Business
'Bullying forced me to retire'
28 Sep 04 |
UK
Ethnic workers 'bullied more'
10 Sep 04 |
Wales
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Wales TUC
The Andrea Adams Trust
University of Glamorgan
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP WALES STORIES
Admission over NHS 'underfunding'
Farmers' 'badger cull disaster'
Funeral of family after home fire
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Morgan quits TV awards after 'campaign'
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
Unnamed page
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Pilotless drone to transport humans
Unnamed page
BBC News
Unnamed page
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 72,786 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
