People & Performance ::
Home
home
about
our services
Coaching
Team Coaching & Development
Board Development
Leadership & Management Development
Skills Development Bespoke Programmes
Facilitation
Mediation
HR Consultancy
Psychometrics
Interim HR Management
events
our people
our clients
our publications
contact
What we do
Coaching
We believe that really good quality coaching is one of the most powerful development tools available. People & Performance take both a ‘coachee-centred’ and a ‘solutions orientated’ approach.
FIND OUT MORE »
Team Coaching & Development
Working as a team is more than labelling a group of people a team.
We work with management teams and boards to develop as a team with a shared vision and values.
Shifting the focus from individual silo responsibility to shared organisational responsibility…
FIND OUT MORE »
Board Development
Our approach to Board development helps you see where you operate well and where you could improve your effectiveness.
We help you distinguish between effective Board process and content and where you add most value in setting strategic direction, ensuring effective governance and monitoring performance.
FIND OUT MORE »
Leardership & Management Development
Being an effective manager requires people management skills.
We believe that managers are made rather than born and we work with you to develop your own authentic management style and approach.
FIND OUT MORE »
HR Consultancy
We provide business focused strategic HR consultancy support on business critical projects and discrete assignments as well as providing coaching support to HR Directors and Chief Executive Officers.
FIND OUT MORE »
Mediation
We believe that mediation is a hugely effective way of resolving people problems. This non- adversarial approach often delivers win-win solutions, which all parties buy in to. We find that when we mediate we facilitate collaborative outcomes, build stronger working relationships based on mutual trust, respect and understanding.
FIND OUT MORE »
e are passionate about supporting people to bethe best that they can be
At People & Performance, we believe that the best way to increase your organisation’s performance is to unlock the potential of your people and focus their efforts.
We are all about people and their performance hence our company name, People & Performance.
We support you to lead your people to do their best work.
We provide a range of support including executive coaching for senior managers and team coaching for teams and boards. We work with teams who aspire to be high performing and with groups who want to become teams. Whatever the circumstances of your organisation, whether you are addressing business critical challenges, seeking to transform your organisation’s performance, improve employee engagement or just want to grow the company sustainably, we can help you reach the next level.
Quick links
Home
About
Our Services
Events
Our People
Our Clients
Our Publications
Contact
People & Performance © 2014 All Rights Reserved.
LinkedIn
Email us
