Ragus | Pure Sugars & Syrups
Main English Site
Sugar is our business
PLAY GOLDEN SYRUP VIDEO
View all videos
Watch our full film
WELCOME TO RAGUS
We globally source sustainable sugar, and, from our advanced UK sugar manufacturing facility, produce a wide range of pure sugar products that we deliver on time and in full to a range of international, and, UK customers.
These include sugars (such as golden granulated and Demerara), refiners’ syrups (e.g. cane syrup, golden syrup and invert syrup) and treacle and molasses. We also have a team of sugar experts working in our lab to create special formulations (e.g. brewing sugars, sugar and glucose blends and products manufactured to a specific ratio of different sugars). We can produce pretty much any sugar you need, in any volume above 2,000 kilos, and ship it across the globe.
Our UK sugar factory close to west London, has recently opened. It’s been designed to the latest food manufacturing standards, uses highly efficient processes and includes smart technology to ensure we deliver our pure sugars, glucose syrups and specialist blends on time and in full to customers. We supply artisan bakers and brewers to well-known blue chip global brands with sugar products that are used across the baking, brewing, confectionery, drinks and pharmaceutical, industries.
Our heritage dates back over 100 years and Ragus’ founder invented golden syrup. We’re proud of this history and our commitment to ethical operations ­– we provide ongoing consultancy and supervision to sugar plantations and suppliers overseas, supporting our commitment to the cause of sustainable sugar farming across the world in partnership with Bonsucro, Fairtrade and organic organisations.
Read more
SUGAR NEWS & REPORTS
BAKO WALES VISITS RAGUS MANUFACTURING
27/01/17
Confectionery Production Magazine Visits Ragus HQ
14/12/16
VIEW ALL ARTICLES
Contact us
Ragus Sugars Manufacturing Ltd.
830 Yeovil Road
Berkshire SL1 4JG
England
Get directions on Google Maps
Telephone: +44 (0)1753 575353
Facsimile: +44 (0)1753 691514
Email:sales@ragus.co.uk
Watch us on YouTube
Cookie policy
Ragus Sugars Manufacturing Limited ("We") are committed to protecting and respecting your privacy.
This policy (together with our terms of use and any other documents referred to on it) sets out the basis on which any personal data we collect from you, or that you provide to us, will be processed by us.  Please read the following carefully to understand our views and practices regarding your personal data and how we will treat it. By visiting www.ragus.co.uk(“Site”) you are accepting and consenting to the practices described in this policy.
For the purpose of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“Act”), the data controller is Ragus Sugars Manufacturing Limited of 830 Yeovil Road  Slough  Berkshire  SL1 4JG.
INFORMATION WE MAY COLLECT FROM YOU
We may collect and process the following data about you:
Information you give us. You may give us information about you by filling in forms on our Site or by corresponding with us by phone, e-mail or otherwise. This includes information you provide when you participate in discussion boards or other social media functions on our Site and when you report a problem with our Site. The information you give us may include your name, address, e-mail address and phone number.
Information we collect about you. With regard to each of your visits to our Site we may automatically collect the following information:
technical information, including the Internet protocol (IP) address used to connect your computer to the Internet, your login information, browser type and version, time zone setting, browser plug-in types and versions, operating system and platform;
information about your visit, including the full Uniform Resource Locators (URL) clickstream to, through and from our Site (including date and time); products you viewed or searched for; page response times, download errors, length of visits to certain pages, page interaction information (such as scrolling, clicks, and mouse-overs), and methods used to browse away from the page and any phone number used to call our customer service number.
COOKIES
Our Site only uses cookies required by Google Analytics. This technology and what a cookie actually does, is explained below.
By using our Site you consent to the use of these cookies.
We do not accept responsibility for cookies on external websites referred to from our Site.
A cookie is a parcel of text sent back and forth between a web browser and the server it accesses to collect data about a given browser, along with the information requested and sent by the browser’s operator (the visitor). Google Analytics is a widely-used web analytics service provided by Google, Inc to generate statistics about visitors to websites. Google stores the information collected by its cookies on servers in the United States. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other information held by Google. By using our Site, you consent to the processing of information by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.
The following Google Analytics cookies are used on our Site:
Name:_utma Description: This cookie is typically written to your browser upon your first visit to our Site from that web browser. If you delete the cookie and you subsequently visit our Site a new _utma cookie is written with a different unique ID. This cookie is used to determine unique visitors to our Site and it is updated with each page view. It is provided with a unique ID that Google Analytics uses to ensure both the validity and accessibility of the cookie as an extra security measure. Expiration: 2 years from set/update.
Name: _utmb Description: This cookie is used to establish and continue a user session with our Site. When you view a page on our Site, the Google Analytics code attempts to update this cookie. If it does not find the cookie, a new one is written and a new session is established. Each time you visit a different page on our Site, this cookie is updated to expire in 30 minutes, thus continuing a single session for as long as your activity continues within 30-minute intervals. This cookie expires when you pause on a page on our Site for longer than 20 minutes. Expiration: 30 minutes from set/update.
Name: _utmc Description: This cookie is no longer used by the ga.js tracking code to determine session status. Historically, this cookie operated in conjunction with the _utmb cookie to determine whether or not to establish a new session for the user. For backwards compatibility purposes with websites still using the urchin.js tracking code, this cookie will continue to be written and will expire when the user exits the browser. Expiration: Not set
Name: _utmz Description: This cookie stores the type of referral used by you to reach our Site, whether via a direct method, a referring link, a website search or a campaign such as an email link. It is used to calculate search engine traffic, campaigns and page navigation within our Site. The cookie is updated with each page view to our Site. Expiration: 6 months from set/update
For more information about Google Analytics cookies and how to remove them please refer to the following information from Google:
http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/concepts/gaConceptsOverview.html
http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/concepts/gaConceptsCookies.html
https://www.google.com/intl/en/analytics/privacyoverview.html
USES MADE OF THE INFORMATION
We use information held about you in the following ways:
Information you give to us. We will use this information:
to provide you with information about goods and services we offer that are similar to those that you have already enquired about;
to provide you, or permit selected third parties to provide you, with information about goods or services we feel may interest you.
to notify you about changes to our service;
to ensure that content from our Site is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your computer.
Information we collect about you. We will use this information:
to administer our Site and for internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research, statistical and survey purposes;
to improve our Site to ensure that content is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your computer;
to allow you to participate in interactive features of our service, when you choose to do so;
as part of our efforts to keep our Site safe and secure;
to measure or understand the effectiveness of advertising we serve to you and others, and to deliver relevant advertising to you;
to make suggestions and recommendations to you and other users of our Site about goods or services that may interest you or them.
DISCLOSURE OF YOUR INFORMATION
We may share your personal information with any member of our group, which means our subsidiaries, our ultimate holding company and its subsidiaries, as defined in section 1159 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
We may share your information with selected third parties including:
Business partners, suppliers and sub-contractors for the performance of any contract we enter into with them or you.
Analytics and search engine providers that assist us in the improvement and optimisation of our Site.
We may disclose your personal information to third parties:
In the event that we sell or buy any business or assets, in which case we may disclose your personal data to the prospective seller or buyer of such business or assets.
If Ragus Sugars Manufacturing Limited or substantially all of its assets are acquired by a third party, in which case personal data held by it about its customers will be one of the transferred assets.
If we are under a duty to disclose or share your personal data in order to comply with any legal obligation, or in order to enforce or apply our terms of use ragus.co.uk and other agreements; or to protect the rights, property, or safety of Ragus Sugars (Manufacturing) Limited, our customers, or others.
WHERE WE STORE YOUR PERSONAL DATA
The data that we collect from you may be transferred to, and stored at, a destination outside the European Economic Area ("EEA"). By submitting your personal data, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing. We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy.
All information you provide to us is stored on our secure servers.
Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our Site; any transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access.
YOUR RIGHTS
You have the right to ask us not to process your personal data for marketing purposes. We will usually inform you (before collecting your data) if we intend to use your data for such purposes or if we intend to disclose your information to any third party for such purposes. You can exercise your right to prevent such processing by checking certain boxes on the forms we use to collect your data.  You can also exercise the right at any time by contacting us at 830 Yeovil Road  Slough  Berkshire  SL1 4JG or support@ragus.co.uk.
Our Site may, from time to time, contain links to and from the websites of our partner networks, advertisers and affiliates.  If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.  Please check these policies before you submit any personal data to these websites.
ACCESS TO INFORMATION
The Act gives you the right to access information held about you. Your right of access can be exercised in accordance with the Act. Any access request may be subject to a fee of £10 to meet our costs in providing you with details of the information we hold about you.
CHANGES TO OUR PRIVACY POLICY
Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail. Please check back frequently to see any updates or changes to our privacy policy.
CONTACT US
Questions, comments and requests regarding this privacy policy are welcomed and should be addressed to 830 Yeovil Road  Slough  Berkshire  SL1 4JG or refer to the contact us section of this site.
Terms & Conditions
Cookie policy
© Ragus Marketing 2017
