Managed IT Services and Cloud Solutions | Riverlite
Questions? Call us now on: 01223 911191
About
About us
Work at Riverlite
Current Vacancies
Contact Us
Services
Managed Security Service: Riverlite Sentry
Project Management and Consultancy: Riverlite Expert
IT Support Services: Riverlite Assist
Cloud based Telephony: Riverlite Clarity
Service Management: Riverlite Enhance
Infrastructure Management: Riverlite Ensure
Proactive Monitoring: Riverlite Insight
Private Cloud Managed Services: Riverlite vCloud
Sectors
Case Studies
Blog
News
Helping you find the right cloud solutions and managed IT services
vCloud Service Uptime
0%
Insight Sensors being monitored
0
Overall SLA Compliance
0%
Average Call Answer Time
0sec
Clarity Service Uptime
0%
Tickets resolved today
0
Average Ticket Resolution Time
0min
Sentry blocked security threats today
0
Find out more about the suite of Riverlite products and services
FREE eBook
Reaping the Rewards of moving into the cloud.Working with a cloud service provider
Schedule a Review
Book a sales-free consultation to discuss your IT requirements with one of our experts.
Get the Newsletter
Exploring IT managed services for IT directors and senior executives.
Your Challenges
Is your reliance on IT increasing? And is the pace of change impacting your business?
Andrew Singleton
IT Director
“We are thinking of moving our systems to the cloud and are trying to decide the best software solution for virtualisation and applications. Is Citrix right for us or would be better off looking to Microsoft Azure or another of the many solutions out there?”
Victoria Roberts
IT Manager
“Lately our IT systems have been running increasingly slow. We're getting user complaints  now and I know it is causing productivity issues too. We don't have the time or manpower to track down the problem, let alone sort it out.”
Paul Thompson
Operations Director
“We have ambitious plans for our business and are growing fast. It is a constant effort to keep our software up to date and get new users set up quickly. Our IT department is overworked and we're worried about holes in our security.”
Edward Newlands
IT Consultant
“My client needs a complete upgrade of their IT infrastructure. We want to move them to a managed cloud solution to improve efficiency and security. We need an outsource partner with deep knowlege and strong technical skills.”
How we help
Riverlite are technology experts with a strong customer service culture, providing IT managed services and private cloud solutions.
Riverlite Sentry
Riverlite’s Sentry service uses technologies from leading vendors to ensure that companies are protected from the latest threats without needing manual intervention.
Riverlite vCloud
Private cloud hosting in the UK. When outsourcing your IT to a Cloud Managed Services Provider (MSP), you may question whether your data will be 100 per cent secure.
Riverlite Assist
Backed by our almost 10 years of experience as a cloud IT Managed Service provider, Riverlite Assist keeps the IT lights on by delivering proactive IT support services.
Riverlite Insight
Our UK based Network Operations Centre monitors all customer IT environments 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.
Improve performance and enhance user experience.
Latest News from Riverlite
test
Riverlite all set to exhibit at Housing Technology 2017
by Hayley Williams
As part of our continuing commitment to the housing sector, Riverlite has today announced its involvement as a key partner in the Housing Technology exhibition on 8th - 9th March 2017. The long...Read more
Proud to be shortlisted in the 2017 Housing Innovation Awards
by Hayley Williams
We are delighted to announce that - together with our customer Action Housing, the registered charity delivering housing services across Yorkshire and the East Midlands - we have been shortlisted in...Read more
About
About us
Work at Riverlite
Contact Us
Services
Managed IT Services
Private Cloud Hosting
Citrix Services
Infrastructure Services
Follow Us
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Details
Riverlite Limited9 Eaton Court Road,Colmworth Business Park,St Neots,Cambridgeshire,PE19 8ER
Phone: 01223 911191Email: contact@riverlite.co.uk
Registered in England No.06626740
© 2016 Riverlite Limited. All Rights Reserved.
[fa icon="chevron-up"]
