Terry Williams Photographer | Just another WordPress site
Terry Williams Photographer
Just another WordPress site
Skip to content
HomeAbout
Party Tents for sale
Posted on August 6, 2013 by admin
Party tents is a phrase used throughout the world – in America for example they do not use marquees, everything is classed as a party tent. In the UK it is generally used to describe a cheaper and lighter weight structure than normal marquees, typically ones that use PE fabric for covers etc. – Party Tents for sale
Our DIY Marquees are essentially heavy duty party tents (Marquees), we use better quality materials, manufacture and design to make an affordable commercial quality marquee.
Choose the size of marquee you require from the list on the left hand side and see why we believe our heavy duty marquees are the best quality structures of their class in the world.
Posted in Marquees, Services
|
Tagged Party Tents
|
1 Comment
Granite memorials and headstones in London
Posted on August 6, 2013 by admin
Churchyards
Burial in a Churchyard is open to all members of the parish who have been baptised, but in most urban areas there is no space left for new burials.
Although fees are charged, no grave deed is issued as ownership of the grave remains with the Church Authorities.
Although memorials are governed by strict guidelines laid down by the Diocese it is normally left to the Incumbent (Minister) of the Churchyard to decide what is acceptable and interpretation of these guidelines differs widely. For this reason we suggest that you check with us as to what will and will not be allowed before you make a decision.
Most Churchyards will allow ‘Natural’ stones – Slate, Portland, York, Nabresina, Hopton Wood and grey Granites with eggshell, rubbed, sawn or rustic finishes. They will usually not allow Marble, polished Granite, ceramic photo-plaques, heart-shaped or book-shaped headstones and carved figures.
Some Churchyards have specific Cremated Remains plots and Lawn sections. Before proceeding with any memorial work we always write to the Minister for permission. There is normally a fee payable to the Church for this.
Privately Owned Cemeteries
Those run commercially normally operate in much the same way as those run by Local Authorities. The fees are generally higher but distinctions for non-residents seldom apply.
Burial grounds for specific religions or denominations usually occur only in larger urban areas.
Private burial grounds are normally found within large family owned country estates.
We have a wide range of granite memorials and headstones & cover many areas within the UK such as Feltham, Ruislip, Ashford, Kingston, Woking, Chertsey, Addlestone,Esher, Englefield Green, Walton-on-Thames, Shepherds Bush, Paddington, Shepherds Bush, Swindon, St. Neots, Calne, Chippenham, Ealing, Yiewsley, West Byfleet, Brentford, Hampton Hill, Northolt, Guildford, Biggleswade, Royston, Byfleet, Hillingdon
Posted in Funeral Directors, Services
|
Tagged Addlestone, Ashford, Biggleswade, Brentford, Byfleet, Calne, Chertsey, Chippenham, Ealing, Englefield Green, Esher, Feltham, granite memorials, Guildford, Hampton Hill, Hillingdon, Kingston, Northolt, Paddington, Royston, Ruislip, Shepherds Bush, St. Neots, Swindon, Walton-on-Thames, West Byfleet, Woking, Yiewsley
|
Leave a comment
Executive recruitment company
Posted on September 28, 2011 by admin
Edenbrook Partners is an Executive recruitment company set up in 2010 to provide senior professionals to the Global Insurance market. Formed by Patrick Goodwin, who has been recruiting in the Insurance market since 1994, Edenbrook Partners aims to provide a service based on honesty and integrity.
All of Edenbrook Partners’ consultants have a number of years experience recruiting into the UK financial services marketplace and are specialists in their particular market sector.
Edenbrook Partners recruit for the majority of the UK Insurers and are able to provide an experienced insight into the market, salaries as well as advice on career progression.
Posted in Recruitment
|
Leave a comment
Unique Gifts for Men
Posted on September 28, 2011 by admin
It is sometimes difficult to find interesting and unique gifts for the men in your life. We are all bored of buying socks for Dad, slippers for Grandad and a new tie for the hubbie at Christmas. So we thought we would give you a few examples of the unique gifts for men that we have here at The Travelling Souk. This Spanish Fig and Nutmeg Shaving Soap is extremely luxurious against the skin. It creates a smooth lather which soothes and moisturises the skin and the fragrance is just delicious. The unique aspect of this product comes in the form of the beautiful wooden bowl that the soap is packaged in. For only £16.00 this would be a luxury present that any man would greatly receive.
If it is a younger man that you are looking to buy a unique gift for; possibly a son or nephew, this GBR Wash Bag will go down a treat! It is made on the Isle of Wight from genuine recycled sail cloth making it hard wearing and practical. It looks great too, with nautical style appeal it is a perfect gift especially with the 2012 Olympics approaching rapidly!
To view more gifts for men click here
Posted in Gifts
|
Tagged For Him
|
2 Comments
Christmas Gift Fairs
Posted on August 11, 2011 by admin
Travelling Souk markets happen all over the UK, mainly during the Christmas Fair season and have raised well over £350,000 for a great number of charities since 2003.  Over the years we have exhibited our amazing selection of unique gifts all over Great Britain. We are the only fair organisers to hold several events in private manor houses not normally open to the public.
What magical ingredient keeps visitors coming back to The Travelling Souk? It has to be location, temptation and sensation! Our venues are captivating and extraordinary; we call them the unseen manor houses of Great Britain sprinkled with a liberal dose of revamped barns and racecourses.
Of course our stallholders are the vital constituent. We are obsessive about selecting the best stallholders. Any stallholder who has joined The Travelling Souk is in special in some way and offers unusual gifts for friends and family that you cannot buy elsewhere.
Don’t think for a moment though that these are places for shopping alone. They are places for meeting and feasting with irresistible home cooked fare second to none.
So, punctuate your hectic week!  Pick up your friends and take a trip to an elegant place where parking is easy, shopping for unusual Christmas gifts, personalised Birthday gifts or just unique gifts for friends is inspirational and, most importantly, giving is fun with every purchase supporting our hosts’ charities.
Watch this space for details about our 2011 Christmas fairs or join our mailing list to receive details.
Posted in Gifts
|
Leave a comment
Search for:
Archives
August 2013
September 2011
August 2011
Meta
Log in
Terry Williams Photographer
Online Marketing & IT Support By Knowall Media | Knowall IT
