MASTA Travel Health | For All Your Vaccination Advice
Cookie notice - We use cookie on this site to give you the best experience possible. If you continue without changing your cookie settings, we assume that you consent to our use of cookies on your device. You can change your cookie settings at any time but doing so may reduce functionality on our website. For more information, see our
Privacy Policy
. Click Accept to remove this message.
Home
Vaccine Checker
Find a clinic
Pricing
Blog
Login
MASTA - Cambridge
Below you will find information for MASTA - Cambridge. Please contact the clinic to book your appointment.
The Cambridge Travel Clinic Ltd
41 Hills Road
Cambridge
Cambridgeshire
CB2 1NT
Telephone: 0330 100 4127
view in Google Maps
Type of appointment: Clinic consultation
Your clinic appointment will include a full consultation and risk assessment by a travel health specialist nurse. You will also receive any vaccinations, antimalarials and other essential travel products needed for your trip.
Please note the following:
Children aged up to 15 years must have a parent/guardian present and able to complete the consultation on their behalf. Children aged 16 to 18 years must attend the consultation themselves.
Ensure that you bring details of all current and historical medical and treatment to your appointment.
This clinic reserves the right to charge a £20 consultation fee as follows:
If vaccinations/antimalarials are not purchased
Cancellations within 48 hours of the appointment time
None attendance of the appointment
What do I do now?
To book an appointment, simply complete our vaccine checker to see whether there are any vaccines or antimalarials recommended for your journey, then choose an appointment time to suit you.
You can also choose a different clinic if you wish
Choose a different clinic
Check Vaccinations
About MASTA
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Site map
Careers
Why MASTA?
MASTA online users
FAQs
© 2017 MASTA Limited. All rights reserved
