Campod: Cambridge Fund for the Prevention of Disease
Skip to content | Access key help
Search
Email & phone search
Pathology A–Z
Contact Campod
University of Cambridge
School of the Biological Sciences
Department of Pathology
Campod
Campod, Cambridge Fund for the Prevention of Disease, is a charity that raises money to directly support medical research in the Department of Pathology at the University of Cambridge.
It was formed in 1983 and is supported through individual donations and legacies, grants from Charitable Trusts and income derived from fundraising activities.
Campod offers the opportunity for individuals to directly support world-leading research into major diseases affecting the world-wide population.
Our Aims
Who Benefits
Supporting Campod
Alumni
People
Contact Us
16th Annual Campod Golf Challenge - Ely City Golf Club, Tuesday 5th July 2016
The amount raised for Campod was £826 which will go towards a new radiation counter for use by all research groups in the Department.
More details→
Flower Power
Sending flowers? Why not order them from www.charityflowers.co.uk and help save lives?
Campod are delighted to have teamed up with Charity Flowers. They offer a beautiful range of flowers, plants and chocolates and when you place an order with them, quoting ‘CAMPOD’ they will donate 15% of your order total to our charity, at no cost to you. More details→
Find us on...
Facebook
Twitter
News and Events
Published in Nature
- Building nano-machines in biological outer space
Scientists in the Department’s Microbiology Unit have solved a long-standing mystery confounding both biologists and physicists - how are long flagella ‘propellers’ built far outside the biological cell where there is no conventional energy source ?
In the journal Nature Dr Lewis Evans et al publish their Wellcome Trust-funded research, led by Dr Gillian Fraser and Professor Colin Hughes, which uncovers a simple and elegant ‘chain mechanism’
harnessing the entropic force generated by the unfolded subunits themselves. More
Evans LDB, Poulter S, Terentjev EM, Hughes C & Fraser GM (2013) A chain mechanism for flagellum growth. Nature DOI 10.1038/nature1268.
Pathology News
The
latest edition of the online newsletter for staff, alumni and friends of the Department of Pathology.
Read more
Every time you make a purchase at Amazon.co.uk by accessing the site from the Campod web pages, Amazon will donate up to 10% of your total purchase to Campod, at no extra cost to you. This applies to all items, not just books.
© 2014 University of Cambridge Department of Pathology, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge, CB2 1QP
Information provided by webmaster@path.cam.ac.uk
Privacy
Accessibility
