visualplanet | Home
touchfoil™
Applications
Partners
Support
News
About
Contact
touchfoil™
Applications
Partners
Support
News
About
Contact
Welcome to Visualplanet™
The home of the touchfoil™ - a patent-protected, self-adhesive clear film touch sensor that turns glass into an interactive surface. Combine with a monitor and PC to become a touchscreen or integrate as a component part of your overall interactive system delivery.
What for?
Whether it’s a shop window, a bespoke enclosure, curved glass, a mirrored screen or a large roll out of self-service terminals our touchfoil has the versatility and capability to bring your interactive ideas to life.
Progressive partnerships
Since 2003 we have been developing, manufacturing, and supporting the touchfoil™ from our own factory in Cambridge, England, UK.
We now have a worldwide network of integration partners creating and installing innovative interactive displays for SMEs, institutions and global brands, all touch enabled with our touch sensor - the visualplanet touchfoil™.
Case Studies
Find out how our partners integrate the touchfoil™ into their solutions.
Read Case Studies
touchfoil™ Specifications
Learn about the key features and technical details of our touchfoil™.
View Specifications
Purchasing touchfoils™
Find your local distributor or become a visualplanet™ partner.
How To Buy
Turn your solutions interactive
The touchfoil™ is designed for our integration partners to fit into new or existing enclosures - we are always on hand to transfer our knowledge and help with the initial design in order to optimise the integration and the final touch experience. Flat or curved, indoors or outdoors, thick or thin, pretty much any non-metallic surface can be turned into a large format touch screen with no compromise on a premises’ security.
Flexible in more ways than one
The flexible foil format is designed for simpler integration and customisation. Our customers asked for flexibility to work outside of the constraints and restrictions of other touch sensor technologies. With design freedom your standard becomes our standard, we don’t force you to take a product that doesn’t quite fit. Flexibility is core to our business and that’s been our ethos and philosophy from day one.
Build your reputation on ours
All of our touch sensor products are engineered to remain stable and reliable for many years to come – even in the most challenging operating environments such as outdoor public facing kiosks, theme park totem wayfinders, transportation ticketing machines to name but a few.
Our products have been designed to provide you with higher customer satisfaction and lower operating support costs.
The latest projective capacitive touch technology
When you integrate a touchfoil™ into your solutions, you’re opening up a whole new world of consumer-to-brand interaction, using the most advanced pro cap touch sensor technology.
The power of touch
Our products give your customer the latest in touch sensor technology, and can provide access to consumers at times and in situations when they would usually be out of reach. The retail shop is closed, the ticketing entertainment venue booth is unmanned, the museum exhibit is crowded, the public transport stop is underutilised... All occassions when these exciting installations are proven to increase consumer enjoyment and engagement.
Partner with us
Let us inspire you with the quality of our ideas as well as our touch sensor products. Talk to us about adding our interactive capabilities to your customers’ displays.
“Back in 2001, I was standing in the High Street. The estate agent’s shop was shut. It would have been so nice to find out more. It hit me there and then.
Businesses shouldn't be putting up barriers. In fact, they should be making it easy for us to find out more about their products and services.
It’s truly amazing to see how far the market has progressed since my original idea, the barriers to using technology for self-service have been completely broken down progressing what was initially a simple targeted concept for the retail sector into one that is now applicable across all markets. We are proud to have been part of this revolution and to be continuing to bring the benefits of touch to everyday activities.”
Vernon SpencerFounder and Director
touchfoil™  |
Applications  |
Partners  |
Support  |
News  |
About  |
Contact
tel: +44 (0)1223 202949  | email: sales@visualplanet.biz
Copyright © visualplanet 2015.  All rights reserved.  |  Terms of Use
The visualplanet touchfoil is protected by international patents. Visualplanet™ and touchfoil™ are trademarks of Visual Planet Ltd and are registered in the United Kingdom and other territories
Subscribe
