Marketing Services | Company Start Up Help | Business Support | YTKO Ltd
About YTKO
For Business
For Economic
Development
News
Careers
Talk to us >>
Award-winning business creation and growth
YTKO Group is a successful, private sector business based in Cambridge. Working across the UK and abroad, we bring over 30 years’ private and public sector expertise in supporting new entrepreneurs, established businesses and corporates.
Enterprise creation and business growth is a journey and we have the experience to support businesses at every stage. Through our range of services, spanning start-up, growth, women and finance, we provide proactive and responsive support for start-ups, SMEs and larger companies seeking expansion.
Our mission in our not for profit work is to support the creation and enable the growth of more than 10,000 companies, who together will contribute more than £1 billion per annum to the British economy by 2020. We’re looking forward to exceeding this target four years early!
Our work with some of the world’s most innovative, dynamic and successful private sector businesses informs and under-pins our award-winning public sector activities. Recognised in the UK and Europe by start-ups and global corporations alike, we’ve made it our business to make a difference to UK businesses.
How can we make a difference for you today?
Bev Hurley CBE elected as new Chair of the IED
November 23, 2016
Following its Annual General Meeting, The Institute of Economic Development (IED) have announced the the election of a new Chair; YTKO CEO Bev Hurley CBE. Bev has held the position of Vice-Chair for two years… Read more »
YTKO and J.P.Morgan: Growing Small Business and the Economy in London
November 16, 2016
YTKO Group’s growth and investment readiness service, GetSet for Growth provides an invaluable service for small businesses seeking expansion. Over the past 18 months, the East London programme … Read more »
Outset Finance hits £5million milestone of Start Up Loans distributed
September 9, 2016
National Start Up Loans delivery partner Outset Finance is celebrating the achievement of another major milestone; securing a total of £5million for UK entrepreneurs looking to start or grow their businesses. Outset Finance, partner service of the award-winning start-up support … Read more »
Bev Hurley CBE elected as new Chair of the IED
Following its Annual General Meeting, The Institute of Economic Development (IED) have announced the the election of a new Chair; YTKO CEO Bev Hurley CBE. Bev has held the position of Vice-Chair for two years… Read more »
YTKO and J.P.Morgan: Growing Small Business and the Economy in London
YTKO Group’s growth and investment readiness service, GetSet for Growth provides an invaluable service for small businesses seeking expansion. Over the past 18 months, the East London programme … Read more »
site map | privacy policy | contact us
© 1979 - 2017 YTKO Ltd.Brookmount CourtKirkwood RoadCambridge
CB4 2QHtel: +44 (0)1223 903 903email: info@ytko.comfollow us on twitter
