Home - EL Consulting
EL Consulting
Sign up for a regular delivery of free people management tips
Email address:
Home
About us
What we do
Case Studies
News
Contact
We coach and train managers to build teams they are proud of.
Case Studies What everybody ought to know about people management
Case Studies
Why choose elconsulting?
Because we know what every manager ought to know about people management. We have been leading teams and developing managerial skills for more years than we care to mention, so we understand the challenges.
What are the benefits for you if you are…?
In HR?
We can help managers prevent problems escalating
We can minimise the time they spend in your office
Your investment will make the bosses happy
View case studies
The boss?
You get a management team you’re proud of
You will see managers acting differently and thriving
Teams are delivering what you ask for
View case studies
A manager?
Confident and capable
Appreciated and assured
Energised and focused
View case studies
Judith Elliott (our founder) says:
“Yes we are good at tactics and techniques and we have just the right amount of theory at our fingertips. My own background is very commercial, with a well loved national company. I have delivered profit and led huge teams well. It can be done. It’s not rocket science…well at least it isn’t when someone explains it.”
Our customers say:
“Thank you for your course, it was really very good.  I have found myself constantly thinking about the areas we went through during my working day and I have found that I am a lot more confident as a result.”
Georgina, Cambridge Assessment
“You have taught me a lot about true management and I’m excited at the prospect of putting it into practice. I learned a lot, and more about myself which was and will be extremely helpful.”
RW Selwyn College, University of Cambridge
“Thanks for changing the way I think about leadership and management. Much will be put to use in my new job.”
CR NHS Cambridgeshire
“I am now Managing well, thank you! Feeling much more confident still. “Upwards management” also going well!”
JD University of Cambridge
“I am really impressed with M and great for him he is yielding results. We have noticed a big difference in him over the last year and this leadership course is no doubt helping him grow. Leadership development does make a big difference!”
GH Cummins PowerGen
“One of my managers has given me excellent feedback on the Developing Management Talent programme; specifically on how the course forces you to apply what you have learnt.  Judith’s style of delivery and knowledge was also commended.”
DW Cummins PowerGen
© Copyright 2017 El Consulting (Cambridge) Ltd
Terms & Conditions
InformationHome
About us
What we do
Case Studies
News
Contact
Latest News10 Steps To Be More Assertive July 16, 2015How Assertive Are You? July 9, 20157 Ways To Use Digital Learning Resources July 3, 2015
Contact us Poplars Farmhouse, 64 Low Road,
Burwell, Cambridge, CB25 0EJ
T: +44(0) 1638 745474
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Sign up for a regular delivery of free people management tips
Email address:
Designed & Developed by Design Monkey - Cambridge Website Design
