nanoTherics: magnetic nanoparticle heating specialists
Please enable javascript, or click here to visit my ecommerce web site powered by Shopify.
Skip navigation
Home
Products
magneTherm™
Live Cell AMF System
Magnefect Systems
Magnetic nanoparticles for the Magnefect
Lipid based transfection reagents
Magnetic nanoparticles for bioseparation
Other reagents
Buy Online
Our Technology
What is Magnetic Fluid Hyperthermia (MFH)?What is Magnetic nanoparticle heating in AC Magnetic Field?What is magnetic nanoparticle mediated biofilm treatment?What is MNP heat shock protein research?What is Magnet Assisted Transfection?TransfectionA Guide to Hyperthermia Research
About nanoTherics
The CompanyLicensing & Distribution
Cookies
Contact
Search
jQuery Slider by WOWSlider.com v1.7
Innovators in Nano Magnetic Technologies
nanoTherics aim is to provide superior performance magnetic based tools to address global markets and to underpin the research and development of current and future nanoparticle, magnetic particle, cancer therapy, drug delivery, genetic screening and gene therapy programs.
Induction Nanoparticles and magnetic nanoparticle heating in an AC Magnetic Field.
What is Magnetic Fluid Hyperthermia (MFH)?
What is Magnet Assisted Transfection?
More about nanoTherics
Transfection
A Guide to Hyperthermia Research
magneTherm™
The magneTherm™ system is a totally unique, very competitively priced, device which enables magnetic fluid and nanoparticle hyperthermia testing. It operates at a wide range of user-configurable frequencies in one system with no hidden extras needed.
Whilst availability of magnetic nanoparticles and their use is significantly increasing, until now there has been no commercially available system to enable hyperthermia testing of these particles in specific applications at a range of relevant frequencies and field strengths.
nanoTherics has recognised the difficulty in sourcing off-the-shelf equipment which meets this need yet still allows for flexibility in choice of frequencies (low and high) used. The magneTherm™ has been designed specifically for this purpose, operating at a wide range of frequencies with field strengths up to 20 kA/m (25 mT) all in one system with no hidden extras needed. Since the heating capacity of magnetic nanoparticles will vary, depending on size, shape and material properties, it is critical to be able to evaluate heating capacity over a broader range of frequencies.
What is Magnetic nanoparticle heating in an AC Magnetic Field
What is Magnetic Fluid Hyperthermia (MFH)
FAQ's
magneTherm™ Data Downloads
Publications citing magneTherm™
What our customers say
Magnefect Range
The magnefect series of magnet-based transfection devices and magnetic nanoparticles significantly enhance transfection efficiency and cell viability via the unique magnet assisted transfection technology. nanoTherics transfection technologies use magnetic nanoparticles and oscillating magnetic fields to accurately and rapidly transfect biomaterials into cells.  More
Magnefect Range
FAQ's
Reagents & Consumables
nanoTherics offers five types of ready-to-use magnetic nanoparticle reagents designed for use with the magnefect range of transfection devices.
Our unique scientific devices and reagents improve the uptake of biomaterials into cells, a process called transfection.
magnefect Reagents
Lipid based transfection reagents
Magnetic nanoparticles for bioseparation
Other reagents
Carlton Jones  CEO
Carl has over 27 years of success in the life sciences commercial field. He has direct experience of developing sales and distribution channels across a range of disciplines within the global life sciences sector coupled with significant experience of implementing market penetration strategies for new products and technologies.
His prior position was with Thalesnano where he was responsible as Global Head of Sales for developing business with a disruptively innovative instrumentation and consumables range. Previous roles include a variety of senior positions including Sales Director Europe.
By Carl Jones
Google+
New Online Store
Now you can buy all nanoTherics products easily and efficiently from our new online store.
Just click on the online store icon and browse through our range of products from magnefect and magneTherm™ to our extensive collection of reagents
nanoTherics Ltd . Studio 3 , Unit 3, Silverdale Enterprise Centre, Kents Lane, Newcastle under Lyme, ST5 6SR. United Kingdom
t: +44 1782 622 112 . f: +44 1782 621 919 . enquiry@nanotherics.com
