BBC NEWS | UK | Northern Ireland | Department looks at church 'help'
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
BBC NEWS CHANNEL
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 07:38 GMT, Thursday, 13 November 2008
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Department looks at church 'help'
The society has said it is stopping repayments to members
Enterprise Minister Arlene Foster has said her department will do all it can to help the Presbyterian Mutual Society through its cash problems.
The Belfast-based PMS has said it is stopping repayments to members because it cannot meet demand for withdrawals.
The society has assets of £300m and about 9,500 shareholder accounts.
Mrs Foster said her department was "looking at the options available to the society" and would do all it could to help.
The PMS, set up in 1982, is a separate legal entity from the Presbyterian Church in Ireland.
The society's Colin Ferguson said "nervous investors" were moving their money because the PMS was not covered by the government's guarantee scheme.
"The funds have not disappeared," he said.
"It is simply a matter of the society having insufficient cash to meet the demands for withdrawals - the funds are now sitting in the commercial property that we own and in loans that we have made."
Enterprise Minister Arlene Foster said her department would try to help
The society's activities consist of receiving money from shareholders - on which it pays a dividend - making loans to churches and private individuals, and making investments in commercial property in England and Scotland from which it derives a rental income.
The society is not covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, but has made approaches to Government seeking to have it extended to its shareholders.
"Recently the credit crunch has begun to have a severe effect on the society's level of liquid assets," the society said.
"Shareholders' funds in a mutual society are not covered by any form of government guarantee scheme.
"The society believes that the availability of the government's financial compensation scheme to other forms of savings accounts and financial institutions has led an increasing number of people to move their funds out of the society."
The Presbyterian Church in Ireland has expressed "deep concern" at the move and offered "pastoral care" to shareholders.
The Clerk of the General Assembly - which oversees the running of the church - Reverend Donald Watts said that it was clear the church "cannot in any way underwrite the commitments of the society".
"However, the reality is that many Presbyterians who have invested in the society are now understandably worried and we have a responsibility to care pastorally for them," he said.
The Moderator of the church, Reverend Donald Patton, has written to Prime Minister Gordon Brown encouraging "a positive response" to the financial guarantee request.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES
Two in court over Twelfth riots
Major arrests promised over riots
Riot tactics defended by police
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
One-minute World News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 69,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
