BBC News - UK economy emerges from recession
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 00:30 GMT, Wednesday, 27 January 2010
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
UK economy emerges from recession
The UK economy has come out of recession, after figures showed it had grown by a weaker-than-expected 0.1% in the last three months of 2009.The economy had previously contracted for six consecutive quarters - the longest period since quarterly figures were first recorded in 1955. There have been recent recovery signs - last week, UK unemployment fell for the first time in 18 months. The UK's had been the last major economy still in recession. Europe's two biggest economies - Germany and France - came out of recession last summer. Japan and the US also emerged from recession last year. The weak level of growth took its toll on the value of the pound, which fell against both the dollar and the euro on the money markets. 'Below expectations'"We can say that Britain has just crossed the line in coming out of recession," said BBC chief economics correspondent Hugh Pym. "It [the growth figure] was below analysts' expectations. The figure could be moved down, or indeed upwards."
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
How the ONS announced the UK had emerged from recession
Our correspondent said the move out of recession had been greatly boosted by the government car scrappage scheme. Joe Grice, from the Office for National Statistics (ONS), said the UK's production and service sectors each grew by 0.1% during the quarter. The ONS figures also showed that GDP fell by a record 4.8% in 2009. "The Q4 GDP figures are a major blow to hopes that the UK economy had emerged decisively from recession in Q4," said analyst Jonathan Loynes at Capital Economics. "No doubt some commentators will claim that the figures are under-estimating the true strength of the recovery and will be revised up in time. "That is certainly possible. But it won't change the big picture of an economy still operating way below both its pre-recession and trend levels of output." 'Frail' recoveryThe UK recession began in the April-to-June quarter of 2008, and was the longest UK recession on record. During 18 months of recession, public borrowing increased to an estimated £178bn, while output slumped by 6%. After the GDP figures were published, John Wright, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses, said that the recovery remained "frail".
Even with some revision... we are still talking about an extremely lacklustre recovery
Stephanie Flanders, BBC economics editor
Read Stephanie's blog in full
Hard times persist in Barnsley
Fragile recovery for Welsh firms
Q&A: What is GDP?
"In order to strengthen the recovery it is important that we boost consumer confidence and demand and that interest rates are held steady as continued investment in the economy will be the key to ensuring a sustainable recovery," he said. Meanwhile, Lee Hopley, chief economist at manufacturers organisation EEF, said: "Whilst today's data confirm that manufacturing is now out of recession, they also continue to raise questions over the health of the wider economy. "The trajectory for the recovery, particularly in the next six months, is an uncertain one and the best prospects remain an export-driven turnaround." First estimates of how the economy has performed are made with about 40% of the data available, and Investec economist David Page has warned there is "plenty of room for surprises" in the figures. But the BBC's Economics Editor Stephanie Flanders said: "Even with some revision - in fact, even if it turns out that the economy actually started to grow in the third quarter, given that the first estimate of a decline 0.4% has already been revised up to -0.2% - we are still talking about an extremely lacklustre recovery." 'Staggering'Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling said he was now sure that "we are on a path to recovery. "I'm confident but I'll always remain cautious". But shadow chancellor George Osborne told the BBC that the UK needed a "new model of economic growth" under a Conservative Government. He added: "Let's be clear - this is about as weak growth as you can get." Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman, Vince Cable said the markets would be surprised that growth had been markedly slower than expected. "Far from the quick recovery the chancellor has been praying for, the economy is only just staggering back into growth," he said.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
UK ECONOMY: THE RECOVERY
TOP STORIES
UK economic growth slows to 0.2%
UK borrowing hits record £163.4bn
Small increase in UK retail sales
UK unemployment increases to 2.5m
UK inflation rate rises to 3.4%
BASICS
The economy tracker
Latest unemployment figures in graphics
VIDEO
Job tip for Neets: 'Get a haircut'
Stephen Alambritis on economic data
Business basics: What is GDP?
Getting back into work after unemployment
UK watchdog to probe Goldman Sachs
Tesco overcomes ash disruption as profits rise
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Office for National Statistics
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP BUSINESS STORIES
Strong demand boosts Intel profit
Rio resumes Australia investment
Unemployment dips to 2.47 million
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Unnamed page
Unnamed page
Unnamed page
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Unnamed page
BBC News
One-minute World News
Unnamed page
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 69,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
