BBC NEWS | UK | Wales | Violence fears over credit crunch
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 06:48 GMT, Tuesday, 25 November 2008
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Violence fears over credit crunch
The Wales Domestic Abuse Helpline took nearly 14,000 calls over a 12 month period, a rise of more than 200
Case study: Mother beaten while holding child
The credit crunch could lead to an increase in domestic abuse, say police and victim support groups.
Gwent Police chief constable Mick Giannasi said community intelligence suggests economic hardship was causing more tension in homes.
Welsh Women's Aid also said financial worries were one of the key factors that could influence domestic violence.
White Ribbon Day, an international event calling for the end of violence against women, takes place on Tuesday.
"We're picking up things like there appears to be more tension in homes for example, so we talk to people like victim support organisations," said Mr Giannasi.
"We have a bobby van scheme that goes out and helps people that have been involved in crime and we're picking up the sense that life is a bit more tense."
DOMESTIC ABUSE FACTFILE
Domestic abuse accounts for 25% of all violent crime in the UK
One incident of domestic abuse is reported to the police every minute in Wales and England
On average a women is attacked 35 times before contacting the police
50% of women murdered are a result of domestic abuse
In 35% of cases there is a second assault within five weeks
From April 2007 to March 2008, 1,505 women and 1,338 children were accommodated in refuges across Wales
From April 2007 to March 2008, 10% of children in refuges were recorded on the Child Protection Register
For women across the world aged 19-44, domestic abuse is the leading cause of death, greater than cancer, war and motor accidents
Welsh Women's Aid chief executive Paula Hardy said women were often given cash by their partners to run the household which could lead to problems when money was tight.
"I think in terms of hitting a credit crunch now, it's well known that there are key factors that exacerbate the problem," she said.
"For us it's a very big concern and it's something we will be talking to other agencies about."
Wales Domestic Abuse Helpline manager Tracey Owens said there was never any excuse for domestic violence but outside influences did play a role.
No excuse
"If there is domestic abuse in the home, any kind of external factor which is putting strain on a relationship can exacerbate the problem," she said.
"There are a lot of things but there's no excuse for domestic abuse, it's about power and control."
The helpline has seen an annual increase in the number of calls it receives from women, men and children since it was set up in 2004.
From April 2007 to March 2008 it took 13,982 calls compared to 13,568 from April 2006 to March 2007 and 8,494 the previous year.
However, the helpline only became a 24-hour service in January 2007.
Social justice minister Dr Brian Gibbons announced more than £1.5m of funding on Tuesday to support organisations tackling domestic and sexual abuse.
Support centres
Eleven projects across Wales will receive grants for 2008/09 including the North Wales Women's Centre, Blaenau Gwent's domestic abuse service and Llanelli Women's Aid.
Dr Gibbons said: "It is very important that Wales takes action to minimise domestic abuse through dedicated support centres.
"We also need to be aware that as we approach the festive season, sadly the risk of domestic violence increases. It is vital that we work to prevent this crime as well as having services in place to respond."
Mid and West Wales AM Joyce Watson is setting up a campaign in Wales to recruit sporting ambassadors to say no to domestic violence and her first recruit is former Wales rugby international Derwyn Jones.
"Sport and rugby in particularly has a reputation for being a very macho environment," said Jones.
"There is also a culture of not getting involved in people's personal lives but domestic violence is a crime that we should all say no to whatever sex or background we come from."
• The Wales Domestic Abuse Helpline can be contacted on 0808 8010 800. It is a free support and information service for women, children and men in Wales.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
SEE ALSO
Special courts target domestic violence
07 Nov 08 |
UK
Blog to highlight domestic abuse
20 Oct 08 |
Wales
Students reveal domestic violence
01 Jul 08 |
Education
Ethnic domestic violence 'hidden'
20 Sep 07 |
South West Wales
Mother helps launch abuse line
16 Jan 07 |
Wales
Domestic violence victims testify
28 Jun 05 |
UK
Drink blamed for home abuse rise
31 Aug 05 |
South East Wales
Hidden toll of domestic violence
25 Nov 04 |
Wales
Victim's family back helpline cash
28 Sep 04 |
Wales
Helpline tackles domestic abuse
06 May 04 |
Wales
Charities unite against domestic violence
25 Nov 01 |
England
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Blaenau Gwent Domestic Abuse Service
Gwent Police
North Wales Women's Centre
Wales Domestic Abuse Helpline
Welsh Women's Aid
White Ribbon Campaign UK
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP WALES STORIES
Admission over NHS 'underfunding'
Farmers' 'badger cull disaster'
Funeral of family after home fire
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Unnamed page
Unnamed page
Unnamed page
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Unnamed page
BBC News
One-minute World News
Unnamed page
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 69,814 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
