Centrepoint: give homeless young people a future | Centrepoint
Skip to content
Contact Us
Basket (0 items)
Show search
Hide search
Go!
Donate
Menu
Youth homelessness
Youth homelessness
The Issue
The Solution
Centrepoint Helpline
Real stories
What We Do
What We Do
Housing
Health
Learning
Moving On
Policy and campaigning
The Street Football Association
Databank
About Us
About Us
Who We Are
Impact and Success
Partnering
News
Our finances
Centrepoint Helpline
Get Involved
Get Involved
Volunteer
Fundraising and events
Corporate partnerships
Events Calendar
Sleep Out
Sponsor A Room
Contact Us
Go!
Donate
ARE YOU HOMELESS, SOFA SURFING OR AT RISK?
Get Help Now
WELCOME TO CENTREPOINT
Centrepoint supports more than 9,000 homeless 16-25 year olds a year into a home and a job.
We think it's time to end youth homelessness in the UK.
How do we do this?
WHAT IS YOUTH HOMELESSNESS?
We know young people sleep rough every night - in parks, stairwells, under bridges and worse. But there are thousands more you don't see - spending the night on buses, on sofas or in the homes of strangers. They're escaping abuse, violence, gangs and fear. Many are homeless because they can't live with their family, or they have no family. More than 150,000 young people ask for help with homelessness every year.
Find out more
No one ever dreams of being homeless
Homeless young people have dreams and ambitions, but so many things stand in their way. Homelessness can take a huge toll on their mental and physical health, leaving young people vulnerable and exhausted. By making a gift to Centrepoint in your Will, you'd be supporting our work to bring homeless young people's dreams back within reach.
We provide accommodation, health support and life skills to get them back into education, training and employment. 90 per cent of the young people that come to Centrepoint move on in a positive way. A gift in your Will gives Centrepoint the long term support we need to dream big for young people.
Find out more
Our services
A home, health, life skills and a job across the UK
Impact
We've helped over 116,000 homeless young people
On the streets at 13
On an October night, Kyle found himself sleeping on the streets. He was just 13 years old.
Bullying had changed his behaviour at school, leading to him getting into trouble and eventually being expelled. Arguments with his parents erupted and he was soon told to leave. He had no other family to turn to, and no friends.
He was eventually allowed back home, but family life didn't get better. At 16, he was homeless again and sofa surfed for four months. On top of this, he had crippling mental health issues.
His first experience of a hostel was difficult, but his second was a success. Kyle was helped into his own place and eventually reconnected with his family.
We do amazing work
Thanks to you
We provide a home. We help vulnerable young people get physically and mentally healthy. We get homeless young people back into education, training or work. We couldn't do this without your generous donations, fundraising and corporate support to make this happen. Thank you.
Help homeless young people off the streets
By sponsoring a room at Centrepoint you can help a homeless young person leave homelessness behind for good. For just £12 a month you can help save lives and change lives.
Sponsor A Room
How we use your donation
We believe in being responsible and transparent with our finances. Your money helps us make an impact for homeless young people now and in the future. It pays for our support services and helps us invest in ways that bring us closer to ending youth homelessness for good.
For every £1 we spend, 77p goes directly on supporting young people, 22p goes on making sure we can support them in the future through fundraising and just 1p goes on administration and governance.
See the impact of your donations
Latest news
13 February, 2017
'Hello, this is William at Centrepoint...'
This morning our Patron HRH The Duke of Cambridge joined us to launch the Centrepoint Helpline - the first ever advice service for young people who ar…
Read more
10 February, 2017
Centrepoint's unique model of support is now available to young people in Manchester
Centrepoint has expanded to Manchester by merging with The Young People’s Support Foundation (YPSF). Together we’ll be providing vulnerable 16-25 year…
Read more
11 January, 2017
HRH the Duke of Cambridge chats about employment with homeless young people
The Duke of Cambridge has begun the New Year with a visit to a Centrepoint hostel to chat about the challenges of getting into work, and take a brief …
Read more
15 December, 2016
Jeremy Corbyn endorses our helpline campaign at hostel visit
Labour Leader Jeremy Corbyn has backed Centrepoint's Young & Homeless Helpline and voiced his concerns about housing issues affecting young people…
Read more
See more news
Loading...
Oops, there was a problem retrieving more items - please try again
Sleep Out in 2017
For more than ten years, Sleep Out events across the country have helped raise funds and awareness for homeless young people.
Rough sleeping is on the rise. 28 per cent of UK young people have slept in an unsafe place because they had nowhere else to go. For the first time ever we're asking our supporters to help by holding their own Sleep Outs! Find out more about how to get involved.
Sleep Out in 2017
Are you homeless, sofa surfing or at risk?
If you are rough sleeping, sofa surfing or don't feel safe in your home, we may be able to help.
Get Help Now
KEEP IN TOUCH
Latest News
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
ABOUT US
Who We Are
Privacy statement and cookies
Accessibility
Terms and conditions
FAQs and supporter information
GET INVOLVED
Fundraising
Volunteer
Donate
Jobs
Sponsor a Room
Contact Us
Home
Contact Us
T: 0845 466 3400
© Centrepoint 2017. Centrepoint is a registered charity in England & Wales, No. 292411
