Community banking for everyone - be different!
Expand/collapse navigation
HomeContactWho are we?LoansLoan calculatorJoin
HomeContactWho are we?LoansLoan calculatorJoin
BE DIFFERENT.
Not-for-profit banking for everyday people.
LOGIN
SAVINGS. LOANS. CURRENT ACCOUNTS.
SAVERS - START SAVING.
We have thousands of savers who like the idea of savings a few pennies with us. It's an ethical and 100% safe way to save.
Learn more
AMAZING FLEXI LOANS FROM 4.6%APR.
Every StandardPLUS loan comes with a 3 month payment holiday to give you a break from your repayments.
Learn more
THE MODERN CURRENT ACCOUNT.
Our current account comes with a VISA debit card, CASHBACK rewards, a  mobile app and online banking.
Learn more
Community banking is for everyone. That's what we've been doing since 2001.
WHO ARE WE?
"We're one of the largest not-for-profit and ethical Credit Unions in the UK. When you join us you 'own' part of the Credit Union".
Tell me even more...
Not for Profit
We're not-for-profit. What more can we say.
Every penny we make goes back into the local community in one way or another.
Ethical
We're ethical. We think before we invest.
All our investment decisions must meet our strict ethical guidelines.
Local
Local banking for local people.
Most banks and other financial firms operate across the UK and the world. What's so local about that?
JOIN. IT'S FREE.
You don't need to change banks. Just save or borrow with us.
Over 25,000 local people have already joined us since 2001.
COUNT ME IN
Get that loan from
4.6%APR
We have thousands of Member's and lent £Million's in loans to help local people get the things they want.
LOAN CALCULATOR
How much will it cost me?
Some of our personal loan interest rates are a lot lower than the usual suspects like those big bad banks.
TRY IT
APPLY
No loan set-up fees
Loan decisions made by people - not
computers
No early repayment charges
Repayments terms from weekly,
fortnightly and monthly
Apply for funding for your local charity, community group or local event.
Fun days.
We're always taking part in local events and community days and love being part of the local community.
Community Fund.
Twice a year we give £250 to a worthwhile cause to help fund local organisations and groups who want to hold local events.
Awards & Competitions.
We run lots of competitions for local people with raffles and fun things like catchphrase Friday.
Telephone 023 92 827980
We are one of the largest Credit Unions in the UK with thousands of Members.  We offer:
affordable loans
current accounts
budgeting accounts
ethical investments and policies
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
The FSCS
protects most depositors, including individuals and small companies, up to £75,000. Eligible deposits of large companies and small local authorities are covered up to
£75,000.
Notice of Change to Terms and Conditions
We are
making some changes to the following Terms & Conditions:
Hampshire Credit Union General Terms and Conditions and Important Information for
Current Accounts and Savings Accounts
We are
making these changes as a result of recent changes to the regulations relating to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
With
effect from 1 January 2016, the maximum compensation for each eligible deposit will be £75,000. As a result, rather than refer to any specific limit within our terms and conditions, we have
introduced a general reference to the limit under the scheme.
Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. Registration No 213757. © 2013 The Credit
Union Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
In respect of deposits, an eligible depositor is entitled to claim up to £75,000. The £75,000 limit relates to the combined
amount in all the eligible depositor´s accounts with the Hampshire Credit Union Ltd. Further information is available at www.fscs.org.uk
*dividends are not guaranteed and are profit dependent
Privacy policy | Terms of use
HELPFUL STUFF.
INFORMATION
Complaints
Member login
Help with loan arrears
Grant programme
Loan calculator
Membership Terms & Conditions
CONTACT
Telephone lines are open between 9.30am & 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
If you want to visit us our office opening times are Monday to Friday 10am - 1pm.
02392 827980
talk@hampshirecreditunion.org.uk
DIRECTIONS
facebook
PRODUCTS
Community Loan
StandardPLUS Loan
321 Payroll Loan
ECO Loan
Savings & ISAs
Christmas Club
Current Accounts
Print
|
Sitemap
Hampshire Credit Union - be different.
Web ViewMobile View
Logout |
Edit page
Call
