FPP - Employee Benefits Made Easy
THE FINANCIAL PLANNING PRACTICE
For independent advice call
01943 871627
Email:paul.turner@fpp-leeds.co.uk
Home
About us
How we work
Our Team
How we are paid
Disclaimer
Terms and Conditions
Our Services
Auto-enrolment
Group Protection
Healthcare
Childcare Vouchers
Personal Financial Advice
News
Resources
Testimonials
Contact us
Welcome
We are independent financial advisers with  over 18 years experience of successfully working with small and medium sized companies,  throughout the UK, helping them with their employee benefits and group personal pensions.
Whether you need to set up a new qualifying pension scheme for auto-enrolment,  a Private Medical Insurance,  a new Group Risk scheme or just review your existing arrangements,
we can help.
Our clients stay with us because they know we care and they can rely on us to do things right and give sound solid  advice.
See our testimonials for what our
clients say about us.
If  your staging date coming up ....
get in touch
More
News
We guarantee we can:
save you time and money -   you can offload this project and administrative burden to us.
It’s worth thinking about how much time you’ll spend each month meeting your auto-enrolment obligations – and what
the actual cost of this would be  to your business.
give you peace of mind  - we will ensure that you are  fully compliant with the new pension regulations.
We will exceed your expectations
and meet your needs and can help you on an ongoing basis if required
More
More
MORE INFO
Principal Partner Paul Turner Achieves Chartered Financial Planner Status
08.09.15
FPP to speak at Cambridge Network Pensions Event on Thursday 26th Feb
05.02.15
FPP engaged by Whitaker Firth Solicitors
to provide Auto-enrolment solution
02.12.14
Principal Partner Paul Turner recognised
as a Top Rated Adviser 2014
11.11.14
FPP & Leeds Biz Week Join Up to Offer
Free Auto-enrolment Seminar
02.09.14
EXPERIENCED EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONSULTANTS  for SMEs
If your staging date is coming up ....
If your staging date is
coming up soon ...
© FPP 2016. FPP is a trading name of The Financial Planning Practice which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Financial Services Register No: 186705. The Financial Conduct Authority does not regulate National Savings or some forms of mortgage, tax planning, taxation and trust advice, offshore investments or school fees planning.
Neither FPP nor its representatives can be held responsible for the accuracy of the contents/information contained within the linked site(s) accessible from this page.
The information contained within this site is subject to the UK regulatory regime and is therefore targeted primarily at consumers based in the UK.
By using our website, you're consenting to our use of cookies. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser.
To the best of our knowledge this site complies with the requirements of the British Disability Discrimination Act (DDA). If you require any assistance in reading or understanding this information please contact us.
