FTSE Russell
Skip to main content
FTSE Russell uses cookies to improve its website. View our cookie policy The cookies are for analytical purposes have already been set. For more details please see our privacy and cookie policy.
Continue viewing website with cookies
Contact us
Press
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
Search form
Search
Mobile share icon
Mobile search icon
Mobile nav icon
FTSE Russell
About Us
Back
About Us
Our Clients
Our Approach
Contact Us
History
Our History
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility
Governance
About Us
Governance
External Governance
Internal Governance
IOSCO
Market Consultations
ESMA
Index Series
Back
Market Cap Weighted
Index Series
Market Cap Weighted
>
See All
FTSE Global Equity
Russell US (3000, 1000, 2000)
FTSE UK
FTSE China
Russell US Style
Factor
Index Series
Factor > See All
FTSE Global Factor
Alternatively Weighted
Index Series
Alternatively Weighted > See All
FTSE RAFI
Russell RAFI
FTSE Minimum Variance
All Indexes
Industry Specific
Index Series
Industry Specific >
See All
FTSE EPRA/NAREIT Global Real Estate
FTSE NAREIT US Real Estate
FTSE Infrastucture
Fixed Income
Index Series
Fixed Income > See All
FTSE MTS
FTSE TMX Canada
Sustainable Investment
Index Series
Sustainable Investment > See All
FTSE Green Revenues
FTSE Environmental Markets
FTSE4Good
FTSE ex Fossil Fuel
Subscribe to Data
Subscribe to Data
Spotlights
Index Series
Spotlights
Global Equity
US Equity
Smart Beta & Factor
China
ESG
Green Revenues
Quick Links
Index Series
Quick Links
Factsheets
Values & Constituents
Index Announcements
RusseIl Reconstitution
Policy, Methodology & Support
Services
Back
Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB)
Derivatives
Real Time Data
Custom
ETFs
Data and Index Solutions
Tools & Analytics
Back
Monthly Markets Brief
Global Valuations Monthly Report
Monthly Index Reviews
Daily Event Monitors
Russell Index Performance Calculator
Analysis+
Index Viewer
Adaptive Asset Allocation Policy Calculator
Global Performance Attribution
Company Reports
Sustainable Investment
Research & Insights
Back
Research Library
Education Center
Russell Reconstitution
FTSE Asia Research Reports
Blog
The Trump Bump?
Read the blog
Data and analytics to take ESG from niche to norm.
Find out more
Russell Fundamental Index Series now Russell RAFI Index Series
Find out more
Green Revenues
Are your investments exposed to the green economy?
FTSE Russell’s Green Revenues framework allows investors for the first time to accurately measure the world’s transition to a green economy.
Learn about FTSE Russell Green Revenues data
Smart Beta & Factor Indexes
Seeking an index solution targeting specific risk factors?
A range of transparent benchmarks can be used by investors seeking to target specific risk factors, rules-based strategies or market segments, complementing traditional active and passive analysis.
Learn more about FTSE Russell Smart Beta indexes
China Indexes
Interested in exploring key opportunities in China?
FTSE Russell’s China Index Series cover all Chinese share types, multiple asset classes and investment themes including style, dividend yield, fundamentally weighted and property.
Learn more about FTSE Russell China indexes
Equity Indexes
Looking for a clear view of the world’s markets?
FTSE Russell equity indexes are designed to provide an objective and comprehensive picture of the world’s markets.
Learn more about FTSE Russell Equity Indexes
Blog
Index IDEA: Yield & momentum US large caps rise more than broad market in January
Multi-factor indexes from global index provider FTSE Russell that underlie three ETFs from SSGA help illustrate the key characteristics that have enabled certain US large-cap stocks to experience higher returns than the US large-cap market in January, largely continuing performance trends exhibited in 2016.
According to FTSE Russell, two of its series of three focused factor indexes, which a...
The Trump Bump?
By: Mat Lystra, Senior Research Analyst
US election day on November 8 produced an outcome that was something of a surprise to markets around the world—but the markets' response indicates this was a surprise with plenty of potential upside for US companies. The US equity markets and small cap stocks in particular, responded by posting the largest post-election gains in recent history. By examining the post-election performance by sector, we can get a closer look at what drove the “Trump bump”. What happened, and is the post-election bump sustainable?
Blog
Press Releases
FTSE Russell expands China offering with two new indexes
As China continues to open its markets to international investors, FTSE Russell is pleased to confirm the launch of two new benchmark indexes for China A-shares stocks. The FTSE China A Innovative Enterprise Indexes will provide a benchmark for the fast-growing ChiNext stocks listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.
FTSE Russell Introduces FTSE TMX Canada NVCC Bond Index
FTSE Russell recently announced the introduction of the FTSE TMX Canada NVCC Bond Index, the first standalone index of its kind designed for Canadian investors to specifically track the issuance and performance of Non-Viable Contingent Capital (NVCC) securities.
Press Releases
Latest Tweets
Tweets by @FTSERussell
Follow us at:
LinkedIn
Twitter
© Copyright FTSE Russell 2017
Careers
Contact us
Press
Sitemap
Other Sites
London Stock Exchange Group
DDS for Clients
Product Portal for Clients
ICB
FTSE Japan
FTSE China
FTSE Korea
Legal
Website Terms & Conditions
Privacy and Cookie Policy
Legal Disclaimer
Attribution Requirements
"FTSE Russell" is a trading name of FTSE International Limited (“FTSE”) and Frank Russell Company (“Russell”) and their respective subsidiary undertakings, which are members of the London Stock Exchange Group plc group.
FTSE International Limited is a limited liability company registered in England and Wales under registered number 03108236 with its registered office at 10 Paternoster Square, London, England, EC4M 7LS. Frank Russell Company is a Washington corporation with offices at 1201 Third Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98101.
“FTSE®”, “Russell®”, “MTS®”, “FTSE TMX®” and “FTSE Russell” and other service marks and trademarks related to the FTSE or Russell indexes are trademarks of the London Stock Exchange Group companies.
×
You are now leaving www.ftserussell.com
You are now leaving www.ftserussell.com to access a third party website. The link to the third party website has been provided for information purposes only and inclusion of this link does not imply any endorsement or approval from FTSE Russell. FTSE Russell shall not be responsible for the accuracy, lawfulness or content of any third party website or of subsequent links and does not make any representation whatsoever about the content of any third party website. FTSE Russell does not accept any liability, of any kind, to any person arising as a result of any loss or damage or indirectly from the use of any content on such third party website or subsequent links.
No
Yes
