REC Corporate - Home
Recruitment & Employment Confederation
Institute of Recruitment Professionals
View Cart
The Recruitment & Employment Confederation
Jobs transform lives
About the REC
Campaigns
Our people
Our history
Our Impact
REC AGM 2016
REC Partners
Contact us
REC as an Awarding Organisation
Employers
Jobseekers
Jobs transform lives
Membership
How to join
Membership Portal
About REC Membership
Renew your membership
Compliance
Sectors
Member directory
News & Policy
Press releases
REC blog
Research
Policy update
Campaigns
Recruitment Matters Magazine
Press office contacts
Legal Resources
Legal news
Legal Guide
Statutory pay and compensation limits
Model document library
Factsheets and guides
Legal bulletin
Legal bitesize
Holiday Pay Calculator
Training & Events
Events
Training
In Company Training & Coaching
Qualifications
Apprenticeships
Learning & Development Diagnostic
Business resources
Audited
REC Room Hire
Business Partners
Croner tools
Business Consultancy
Elite Leaders
Elite Future Leaders
Start-up
Scale Up
Good Recruitment
Good Recruitment Campaign
About GRC
Signatories
Charter
Our sponsor
Menu
Section Menu
What type of recruiter are you?
Take the quiz now
Scale Up In the Round
8 March, Reading - register now
REC & Croner— Specialist helplines
REC members can access Croner's range of helplines - find out more
What we do
Jobs transform lives, which is why we are building the best recruitment industry in the world. As the professional body for recruitment we’re determined to make businesses more successful by helping them secure the people they need.  We are absolutely passionate and totally committed in this pursuit for recruiters, employers, and the people they hire.
Learn more
Latest News
Wednesday, 15 February 2017REC responds to labour market statisticsTuesday, 14 February 2017Is your candidate care strategy an obstacle to growth?Friday, 10 February 2017Teacher shortages in the UK: a summary of the MAC's recommendations
Wednesday, 08 February 2017Report on Jobs: January sees weaker growth in staff placements Read all news
Employers
Jobseekers
Media
Find an agency
Campaigns & Issues
As the professional body for recruitment we’re determined to make businesses more successful by helping them secure the people they need. As the voice of the industry, we campaign on behalf of the UK’s recruitment industry and represents recruiters’ views at the highest levels of government.
Tax
Tax is a multi-faceted policy brief that cuts across all of our sectors in some way. Our work in this area is very much geared towards ensuring a level playing field for all our members.
Read more
Good Recruitment Campaign
The Good Recruitment campaign, created by businesses for businesses, exists to promote
the critical importance that good recruitment practice plays in organisational success.
Read more
Scale Up
A wealth of tools, events, workshops, seminars and research to help your business grow.
Read more
Ongoing campaigns
Find out about the latest campaigns the REC is running, as well as how we are making an impact for recruiters, jobseekers, employers and the recruitment supply chain as a whole.
Read more
Upcoming training
21 Feb
Telephone Sales
22 Feb
Essential Skills for Temporary Recruiters
01 Mar
Business Development Planning
View all our training events
Upcoming events
22 Feb
Crown Commercial Service Supplier update on CL1 Framework – Feb 2017
22 Feb
Procurement of Public Sector Resourcing (replacement to CL1)
28 Feb
HR Professionals Sector Webinar
View all our events
REC Case studies
It's great to have as a network and resource to keep tabs on what’s happening in the industry. It helps legitimise an often maligned industry and it shows the industry has being proactive in terms of self-regulation.
Sarah Ronan, TDM Contract,
We have seen at first- hand the excellent work that the REC does behind the scenes on behalf of its members and would definitely encourage other members to get more involved and share their skills.
Jan Stevens, DP Connect,
We're in recruitment for the right reasons. I genuinely believe in what we do and want to give as much to our clients and candidates. That's why we're a part of the REC
Jacqueline Hilton FIRP, Fidelis Partners,
When I think about what the REC can provide to a recruitment business, I need not look any further than the service that has been provided to my business. The free Legal Helpline and model contracts are an invaluable asset to any business big or small.
Simon Noakes, Bespoke Recruitment,
Back to top
Award winning services
Home
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Site Map
Follow REC online
Recruitment & Employment ConfederationDorset House, First Floor, 27-45 Stamford Street, London, SE1 9NT
© 2013 The Recruitment & Employment Confederation. Powered by Squiz Matrix.
