Profits are up for staycation businesses – Women Unlimited Worldwide
Sunday February 19, 2017
Home
Springmedia: Web Design
Marketing Workshops
Women Unlimited Worldwide Women Business Owners | Women in business
Home
Articles
Marketing
Starting your business
Running your business
Business skills
Growing your business
Personal development
Health, wealth and wellbeing
Inspiring Videos
Book Love
Start Here!
About us
The Team
Our Contributors
Guest Posting Guidelines
Contact us
Get in touch
Guest Posting for Women Unlimited
Media
// Marketing Workshops
Home » News » Profits are up for staycation businesses
Profits are up for staycation businesses
Emma Jones
September 4, 2009
News
588 Views
Home businesses from a range of sectors have reported an increase in turnover and profit as holidaymakers choose the UK as their destination of choice. With the staycation trend set to continue, businesses are preparing to maintain new customers and ensure the sunny times of increased turnover continue.
Results of higher turnover for home businesses came from an Enterprise Nation poll, supported by Business Link. Over 70% of the 230 respondents said their turnover had increased on account of more people holidaying in the UK. The majority (57.1%) also saw an increase in profit, with one in four reporting gains of up to 50%.
Home businesses are benefiting from a staycation trend that looks set to keep on running. According to YouGov* 54% of people plan to take their main holiday at home in 2010, more than double the 26% who said they were doing so this summer. With staycationing set to be more than a one-year wonder, home businesses are preparing for the new opportunities this presents.
Alison Vaughan is considering a new colour in her line of Muksaks; her own invention and a product that allows dog-owners to carry dog waste safely and securely. “With the increase in people holidaying in the UK and taking pets with them, I’ve seen orders rise this summer” says Alison “I’m working on plans for new colours in the range so as well as serving a practical purpose, the Muksak can also be a holidaying fashion item!”
Business Link advises other ways to attract new staycationing customers through incentives and promotions in the form of loyalty cards and competitions, and offering discounts as an effective tool in keeping customer coming back.
Patrick Elliott, Chief Executive of Business Link in London, said:
“Entrepreneurs can take themselves to the next level, setting themselves apart from their competitors by developing tactics to retain new customers. Keeping in touch through e-shots and using creative ways to interact with customers by making the most of social networking tools such as Twitter will all help in making the most of what is a new and growing customer base.”
Businesses are taking note. Over half the home businesses polled are planning on improving their marketing strategies (44%) and 38% said they will be customising their products or services.
The general message seems to be, let’s make hay whilst the sun still shines!
Emma Jones is Founder of Enterprise Nation and author of ‘Spare Room Start Up – how to start a business from home’
*YouGov poll carried out for The Sunday Times, August 2009
BufferShare this article if you found it useful!
And leave a comment in the box below.
We hope to connect with you soon.
2009-09-04
Emma Jones
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
About Emma Jones
Emma Jones is Founder and Editor of Enterprise Nation, the home business website. She has successfully started two businesses from home offices in London, Manchester and rural Shropshire.
Following a career with an international accountancy firm, Emma started her first home based business at the age of 27 and successfully sold it just 15 months after launch.
Redbrick Enterprises Ltd was founded in 2002 to advise the public sector on effective homeworking. Spotting a gap in the market to provide information and inspiration to homeworkers, Emma launched Enterprise Nation [www.enterprisenation.com], the home business website, in January 2006.
The website is a free resource for people starting and growing a business at home and has a readership of more than 390,000 people. As well as site content, there is also a free fortnightly e-newsletter and podcast.
Emma’s first book on how to start a business from home Spare Room Start Up: How to Start a Business from Home will be published by Harriman House in May 2008.
Previous Jane Rafter: From designer to big business
Next Teenager named on list of top UK business women
Related Articles
We’re back – and we’re totally focussed on you!
November 11, 2014
Boost your business and enter The Pitch
March 29, 2012
Challenging perceptions: Funny Women’s Charity Challenge
February 2, 2012
Check Also
Big Venture Challenge launched with £1.2m prize fund
On Monday the Big Venture Challenge was launched, a competition to find 25 of the …
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *
Email *
Website
Current ye@r *
Leave this field empty
5,598
Marketing Fans
2,355
Followers
5,151
Followers
1,698
Posts
Books we recommend
New Rules of Marketing and PR
A must have for any business
The E-Myth Revisited
Our business bible
Spare Room Start Up: How to Start a Business from Home
A great book written by one of our contributors Emma Jones for anyone that's working from home.
Search Engine Optimization for Dummies
A great place to start if you want to do SEO for yourself
Does Your Marketing Sell?: The Secret of Effective Marketing Communications
This is a very accessible book about Marketing messages and getting it right
Confessions of an Advertising Man
This book was wise beyond it's years when it came out and VERY aspirational
Art of the Start, The Instant Entrepreneur: The Faster Way to Start-Up Success
Loved this book - it's relevent to any startup, but particularly those that are looking for financing
Find Your Lightbulb: How to Make Millions from Apparently Impossible Ideas
Women are often accused of not thinking big enough. This book will cure you of that!
The Magic of Thinking Big
One of the originals, one of the best. I still refer to this one regularly
