Outdoor Pursuits Adventure Holidays and Extreme Activities
Reach the highest heights Call Us On 020 7636 1666
Home
Testimonials
Subscribe
About Us
Map
T&C
Blog
FeedBack
Privacy
Bring out the adventurer in you
with Outdoor Pursuits
Testimonials Hear from some of our adventurers
By Geoff BennettLondon
Outdoor Pursuits are a fantastic company! They organise every kind of outdoor holiday and extreme activity that you could possibly think of! Me and my buddys use them all the time when we need an adrenaline kick!
By Melissa ComptonBrighton
I really wanted my kids to get a sense of adventure. We always take them on relaxing holidays to the beach, so this time I thought we’d take them on a hiking adventure! Outdoor Pursuits were fantastic, and my family can’t wait to go again!
By Eliza FranklinSouthampton
Me and my friend were bored of going shopping and swimming every weekend, so we decided to do something a bit more challenging! Outdoor Pursuit gave us the opportunity to take a step on the wild side, and get some exercise at the same time!
Are you bored of spending your Saturday afternoons in front of the television, or inside of the shopping centre? Do you thrive for excitement and adventure, when the most adventurous thing you seem to do lately is watch Bear Grylls? Well if that’s the case then take a step on the wild side with Outdoor Pursuits. We are your comprehensive adventure holiday and extreme activities providers, offering you every bit of thrill, chase and daringness that is available under the sun (or moon for that matter).
What we do:
Outdoor pursuits offer an extensive range of activities for you to enjoy. Whether it’s an hour’s pulse racing excitement, a weekend of fully packed thrills or a whole week away to test you to the max, we have the right ideas for you!
We provide activities for all ages and size groups, so if you fancy a solo trip, a family bonding session or a crazy time with your friends we are sure to have just what you’re looking for!
Here at Outdoor Pursuits we are constantly looking for new and exciting activities that can really get your adrenaline going. Not only that but we believe in going back to the basics and really making the most of what we were born with. If cave men could survive on no electricity and no IPhones, than we certainly can! We like to challenge our customers and ourselves by stripping them on their 21st Century belongings and sending them out into the wilderness to really see what they are made of! Here is a list of out back to basics activities for the cave man in you to test out:
•   Outdoor survival- test whether you can survive a whole day and night in the wilderness with absolutely no supplies, by learning the following skills: Food foraging, Fire making, Shelter making, Raft making, track following, water storage and Signal Making.
•   Hunter-gatherer - can you find your own food, and survive like the cave men? - Food foraging, bow and arrow making, animal trap making, water supply storage, fire making and track following.
We know that although you all want to be adventurous, being in the great outdoors with no supplies can be a little daunting, so if that isn’t your cup of tea, we have a load of fantastic activities for you to try that will really get your adrenaline going, your fitness tested to the max and your desire to do more heightened! Here are some of our slightly more modern activities that we provide, including equipment when necessary!
•   Tree top trails
•   Hiking and trekking
•   Zip Wires
•   Assault Courses
•   Bungee jumping
•   Sky diving
•   White water rafting
All of our activities come with fully comprehensive training where necessary. All equipment is provided for you and you are given a friendly, experienced and knowledgeable guide to take you through every step of the way! We want you to have fun, test your boundaries and most importantly learn something new while bonding with your friends and family!
For More Information
Contact us now to begin your adventure
Go South Go outdoor pursuits
Registered Office:
69 Mill Street
Alloa
Clackmannanshire
FK10 1DX
Call Us On: 020 7636 1666
About Company
Go South Go outdoor pursuits
69 Mill StreetAlloaClackmannanshireFK10 1DXTel - 020 7636 1666Email Us: support@gosouthgo.co.uk
Services
Go South on you Holidays to Costa BlancaEat at Home with the FrenchTry a ghost hunt for a new outdoor adventureGroupon Contact Number
Take a deep breathe and go!
Home
Testimonials
Subscribe
About Us
Map
T&C
Blog
Feedback
Privacy
Sitemap
Go South Go outdoor pursuits
© Copyright 2013 - 14. All Rights Reserved
