Relay | Reporting Research
Skip to content
Relay
Reporting Research
Panos London
Home
About Relay
Where we work
Learning & Impact
Practical resources
Blog
Search
Notice: This website is online only as an archive & a resource, as Panos London is no longer active.
For more information on the active Panos network and what Panos London achieved visit panos.org.uk.
About Relay The Relay programme brings researchers and journalists together to improve media coverage of critical development issues.
Read more
Where we workRelay works in Eastern Africa and South Asia in collaboration with Panos Network institutes.
In Eastern Africa, focus countries include Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania.
In South Asia, the focus is on India’s Northeast region and Bangladesh.
Read more
Eastern AfricaPanos Eastern Africa (PEA) leads on implementation in Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania.
View
South AsiaPanos South Asia (PSA) leads on implementation in Northeast India.
View
What we do Relay works on three main themes – Governance, Health and the Environment.
Read more
Learning & ImpactView all Relay aims to document and share knowledge, learning, and impact generated from the experience of our projects on the ground.
Engaging media on tax research in Kenya and Uganda This case study describes a project carried out by Panos Eastern Africa in 2011 as part of the Relay Programme, to strengthen media capacity to improve reporting on tax and governance in Kenya and Uganda
View
Reporting research on dams and development in NE India This case study shares learning and results from a Panos South Asia project as part of the Relay programme, to report research on dams and development in Northeast India.
View
UDN works with the media to report research – video Walter Akwat, Communications Officer at the Uganda Debt Network (UDN) talks about his collaboration with journalists and explains how Relay programme has helped his research organisation appreciate the role of the media and improve their communications strategy
View
Practical resourcesView all Relay produces practical resources to support academics and researchers to make their work more widely known through the media – and to help journalists use research as a source for reporting on critical development issues.
How-to guide
Reporting research: using evidence for effective journalism Researchers around the world investigate vital issues relevant to everyday life and yet the findings are largely confined to the academic community. This guide provides evidence and guidance on the importance of reporting research.
View this how-to guide
Topic guide
Common ground? Investigating the importance of managing land A toolkit showing journalists how they can use research on land management to enrich their journalism and broaden the debate.
View this topic guide
Latest blog posts
‘Academic spring’ all year round Wellcome Trust and the World Bank show their support for the Open Access initiative.
11 Apr | Read more
Read Relay’s new case studies! Read the case studies from Relay projects in Northeast India and Eastern Africa, sharing results, approaches and learning on research reporting.
2 Apr | Read more
‘Dammed’ communities? Large dams are being built to meet the energy and water needs. But if dams are to offer development opportunities for all, emphasis needs to be on benefit sharing, especially with local communities.
22 Mar | Read more
What makes a good tax story? – video It is not very often an article on taxation is described as ‘heart-wrenching’. Yet our journalist fellow from Uganda, Alon Mwesigwa, managed to spark an online debate.
15 Mar | Read more
In partnership with
Panos Network
Supported by
UKaid
Wellcome Trust
IDRC
Terms & Conditions • Creative Commons
