Home - Royal Economic Society
Royal Economic Society
Site Navigation
Society/Membership
Career/Education
News/Events
Media/Policy
Resources
The Economic Journal
The Econometrics Journal
Conference
Site Search
Site Search
Search:
Members Login
Members Login
E-mail:
Password:
Members Login Options
Become a Member
Forgotten Password?
Welcome to the Royal Economic Society
The Royal Economic Society is one of the oldest and most prestigious economic associations in the world. It is a learned society, founded in 1890 to promote the study of economic science. The Society publishes The Economic Journal and The Econometrics Journal; holds its Annual Conference, a major international gathering of academic economists;  engages with the media and with the policy communities;and supports education, training and career development of economists
Events & Activities   Join the Society
Contact us
Support
The Royal Economic Society provides financial and other sources of support to a wide range of economists, including: young economists, undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students, and academic economists and their university departments. Support includes the award of grants and prizes, public and policy lectures and RES Training Schools and PhD Meetings and Job Market.
Visit our Career and Education section to find out more
List of RES support.
Filming the Society Lectures
The Royal Economic Society (RES) has invested in filming its popular lectures from 2012 onwards and has built up a library of webcasts which are freely available to view or use as a teaching resource.
The RES YouTube channel also hosts short video interviews and the latest films from the RES Conference and annual  RES public and policy lectures.  Follow @EJ_RES for alerts to new films.
Watch RES Webcasts        RES YouTube
1
2
3
The Economic Journal
Follow @EJ_RES
The Econometrics Journal
Royal Economic Society Annual Conference
Headlines
RES Council Election now open for members votes until 6 March
Published Date:
17
Feb
2017
All RES Members with registered email addresses have now been contacted with a link to the 2017 Royal Economic Society Council Election ballot. If you... Read more
Rachel Griffith and the Economic Journal
Published Date:
15
Feb
2017
Professor Rachel Griffith (CBE)’s term as a managing editor of the Economic Journal is coming to an end by April 2017. Rachel started her career at... Read more
Conference Volume 2018
Published Date:
13
Feb
2017
Papers accepted and presented at the RES Annual Conference are eligible for consideration for publication in the Conference Issue of the Journal.
The... Read more
More News
RSS feed
RES Support
The Conference of Heads of University Departments of Economics (CHUDE) comprises Heads of Economics at universities in the UK. CHUDE meetings offer a forum for discussion of issues of interest with government and public sector economists and a vehicle for widening engagement with Economics among schools, colleges and business. CHUDE often acts as the lead for the RES in providing feedback on official consultations. Its Chairperson is co-opted to the Society Executive Committee. More about CHUDE
The Royal Economic Society's Women's Committee aims to identify the current position of women economists in academic departments and in business; to monitor changes in the position of women and to make this data widely available; to support women throughout the economics profession through the establishment of networks and to increase contacts of women in similar situations.
More
The RES Newsletter Online  Correspondence, discussion, features and obituaries, with archives from 2004.  Published quarterly by Editor Professor Peter Howells. Read the latest  RES NL here.
The Economics Network (EN), is a UK national  resource for  the study and teaching of economics, supported both by the RES and UK Universities through CHUDE. Read more about the EN.
"By providing additional support to lecturers and students alike, [the Economics Network] plays an invaluable role in furthering the university study of economics.” - Sir Charles Bean, Past President of the RES and Former Deputy Governor of the Bank of England.
Media / Policy
The RES promotes media coverage of its events/activities and
distributes media briefings summarising new economic research findings
presented at the RES annual conference or published in The Economic
Journal. An archive library of briefings on research from 1996 to the current date is also available.
Latest Media briefings from the RES
.
Education and Training
The Royal Economic Society organises events and activities and provides financial and other resources to support the education, training and career development of economists. See the careers/education page for more detail.
Financial support
Grants/Fellowships for members
Competitions & Prizes
Activities
Annual Public Lectures for school students and the general public. View 2016 Lecture here.
Webcasts of RES Public Lectures
Video Library of Policy & Keynote Lectures
Postgraduate Meetings and Job Market for advanced postgraduate students and recruiting institutions  Read more
Symposium for Junior Researchers supported by the RES and organised by research students for research students, held at the Annual Conference venue.
Career/Education
Postgraduate Economists/Junior Researchers
Academic Economists/Departments of Economics
Undergraduate Economists
Young Economists
Young Economist Essay Competition
Junior Fellowship Grant Scheme (PhD) Suspended for 2017.
Jobs in Economics: links to sites advertising early career job openings and opportunites for post graduate study in Economics, partnered with Econjobmarket.
RES/ESRC  Postgraduate Easter Training Schools
Events & Conferences
The RES organises, supports and films a variety of events throughout the year.
See full Events list featuring Events and Workshops sponsored and funded by the RES and academic events organised by other organisations
See Conference Diary for Calls for papers, workshops and Conference listings
Competitions and Prizes
We offer four annual journal prizes and the students essay competition as well as
prizes and competitions from other organisations which may be of interest to our members. More.
Membership
The Royal Economic Society has approximately 3,500 individual members, of whom 60 per cent live outside the United Kingdom. Join the Society online and get free submission to The Economic Journal, immediate access to articles in The Economic Journal and The Econometrics Journal online, plus instant access to member-only areas of the website.
Read more about the benefits of RES membership
Page Options
Bookmark or Share
Print this Page
Site Directory
Journals
The Economic Journal
About the Journal
Current Issue
Past Issues
Early View
Accepted Articles
News
Editorial Information
Submissions
Editors' Annual Report
Journal Lectures
Prizes
Subscription
The Econometrics Journal
About the Journal
Current Issue
Past Issues
Special Issues
Free Accepted Articles
News
Book & Software Reviews
Editorial Information
Submissions
Editors' Annual Report
Prizes
Subscription
Webcasts
Contact Us
Contact Us
Society
About the RES
Governance & Structure
Annual Conference
CHUDE
Women's Committee
Membership
Membership
Join the Society
Renew Your Membership
Resources
Application Forms
Webcasts
Scholarly Editions
News/Events
News
Events & Activities
RES Newsletter
Media/Policy
Media Briefings
Policy Lecture Series
Career/Education
Financial Support
Young Economists
Undergraduate Economists
Postgraduate Economists
Academic Economists
© Royal Economic Society
Contact Us
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
The Royal Economic Society is one of the oldest and most prestigious economic associations in the world. It is a learned society, founded in 1890 to promote the study of economic science in academic life, government service, business, industry and public affairs. The Society has approximately 3,000 members, of whom 60% live outside the United Kingdom.
© 2012 Wiley-Blackwell
