Schumacher Society | Promoting Human Scale Sustainable Development
Schumacher Society
Promoting Human Scale Sustainable Development
Skip to content
Home
About
Previous Events
2013 Lectures
2012 Lectures
2011 Lectures
Books & DVDs
Contact
The Schumacher 2014 Lectures
at Small Is…Festival
On September 13/14, the Small Is…Festival comes to Bristol for the very first time. It began life in 2009, at the HQ near Rugby of Practical Action, the company founded by E.F. Schumacher.
Our speakers this year include poets, writers, professors, inventors, students, mayors – and an equally wide range of wonderful musicians. PLUS practical workshops, strong debates and tasty food – all in the superb venue which is St. George’s Concert Hall, off Park St.
On Saturday, Sept 13, Bristol’s Mayor George Ferguson opens the Festival, and (hopefully) lets us into the secret of his success as a changemaker. Then economist Molly Scott Cato reports on her first months as a Green MEP, and author and broadcaster Leo Johnson gives us a glimpse of the future – fromoutside the political arena.
Further projections follow as Herbert Girardet looks at regenerative cities, Keith Barnham reveals the amazing potential of Solar power and Johnny Golding investigates the role of art.
Sunday, Sept 14, brings the wonderful American poet and author Drew Dellinger, addressing the question of how we truly change – with many poems along the way! And in the afternoon, we have a delightful invasion from Devon, led by our second Mayor of the weekend – Jacqi Hodgson from Totnes. Then Jonathan Dawson from Schumacher College addresses the future of education together with Amrita Bhohi, a young leader who found her time as a student at the College to be transformative.
Those are the main lectures. During the day there’ll also be debates, all kinds of practical workshops and more talks (outside in ‘the Sched’). Then there’ll be food, followed by two fabulous evenings of music from around the world.
Full details here: www.smallisfestival.org/programme
TICKETS – Weekend £50/45 Full day £27.50/25 Day/eve only £15/12.50
BOOK NOW
Saturday, 13th September
George Ferguson
On Saturday morning, our first speaker is George Ferguson, the first elected (and independent) Mayor of Bristol – and also an architect and a social entrepreneur. George will open the festival, then reflect on his first two years in office and his thoughts and plans for the future.
Molly Scott Cato
Next will be Molly Scott Cato – the South-West’s newly elected Green MEP. Her talk, ‘Making the most of Big’, will address the EU structure and why it is worth committing to such a large-scale project for the sake of peace..
Leo Johnson
Finally, Leo Johnson will talk on ‘Living in the City of the Future’. We have lived in the city of Ford. What awaits us is the city of Facebook. How do we reclaim the home? How do we reclaim work? How do we reclaim the street.
Johnny Golding
Poet and philosopher Johnny Golding asks ‘how does a village get its identity’? In ‘It takes a village (art, sex, politics, raw)’, she explores the shifting landscapes of ‘branding’ and naming by weaving in the social, cultural, sexual shifts from the 50s to now. Come join her for a little walk on the wild side.
Keith Barnham
Keith Barnham invented a solar cell with three times the efficiency of today’s roof-top panels. In ‘Small Is Revolutionary’, he will explain how semi-conductor technology can help the solar revolution provide people-sized energy solutions to the crises caused by oil.
Herbert Girardet
Author and international consultant Herbert Girardet will present ‘Creating Regenerative Cities’ – a concise, solution-oriented manual providing a unique combination of tried and tested best practices and policies, which outlines the fundamental shifts needed in the way we think about our cities.
BOOK NOW
Sunday, 14th September
Drew Dellinger
Drew Dellinger is an internationally known speaker, poet, writer, and teacher. In ‘Change the Worldview, Change the World’ – a combination talk and poetry reading – Drew will emphasize the connections between ecology, social justice and cosmology, and the pressing need to build movements for cultural transformation. Dellinger will invoke the powers of Dream, Story, Art, and Action as critical capacities for responding to our historical moment.
Jacqi Hodgson
Jacqi Hodgson has been a Green Party town councillor in Totnes since 2009, and became Mayor earlier this year. In ‘Totnes a town in Transition’, she will take us on a brief journey around the popular market town, looking at how its progressive arts and social culture provided an open door to the Transition initiatives that put Totnes on the global map – and at how the Town Council supports that work.
Jonathan Dawson
Jonathan Dawson is a sustainability educator and Senior Lecturer in Economics at Schumacher College in Devon.
In ‘Education for the 21st Century’, he asks what would a more ecologically-informed, collaborative and creative education – fit to meet the needs of the 21st century – look like? This talk will explore what the key elements of such a pedagogy might be – not just conceptually, but drawing on the history, philosophy and experience of the College.
Amrita Bhohi
Amrita Bhohi co-ordinates the City Forum project at St Ethelburga’s in London. As a recent graduate, she will present ‘The Schumacher Experience: A student’s perspective on the future of education’. Those who have experienced living and learning at this pioneering educational institution often describe a ‘Schumacher magic’. So what is it about this unique model which makes it so life-changing?
BOOK NOW
2014 Speakers
George Ferguson
Molly Scott Cato
Leo Johnson
Keith Barnham
Herbert Girardet
Johnny Golding
Drew Dellinger
Jacqi Hodgson
Johnathan Dawson
Amrita Bhohi
© 2017 Schumacher Society
Telephone: 01179 031 081
