Why Choose Us - JMA HR & Legal
T: +44 (0)1252 821792
E: enquiries@jma-hrlegal.co.uk
Providing HR & employment law support
Why JMA
About JMA
Employment Advice
HR Support
Employers Abroad
Events
News
Testimonials
Contact us
JMA HR & Legal Limited is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, SRA registration no. 515054                            Company Details
Legal Notices
Why Choose JMA HR & Legal?
There are many HR advisers and employment lawyers out there - so why choose us?  We are a specialist employment practice; it’s all we do!
We are unique in the way that we combine our expert legal knowledge with our practical experience, having worked in an HR environment. Hence the name, ‘HR & Legal’.  We believe that the two disciplines complement each other and enable us to provide the rounded service you require.
We advise both employers and individuals. Clients appreciate our key values which are at the centre of our approach to all matters.
More
Pragmatic and Approachable
We are regularly praised for our commercial and pragmatic approach which gets efficient and successful results. We understand the pressures created by HR and employment issues; both their spontaneity and urgency. We ensure that you feel able to share these pressures with us easily. We also ensure that our advice to you is free from legal jargon and delivered in a friendly and practical manner.
Responsive
We pride ourselves on ensuring that you know when we are available should you need our support on a new or an ongoing matter. We know how frustrating it can be not to be able to get hold of those you want to speak to when you are already feeling under pressure.
Flexible
We will meet you where it suits you best; whether at your offices or elsewhere. We will happily come to you in order to preserve your time during the working day or even after hours if this suits you better or the matter is urgent. Using current technology, we can deal with matters remotely for you so you can access our advice wherever we are and whenever you need us.
Cost Sensitive
We believe that you won’t find better value for money. We don’t need to charge expensive fees; we have ensured that our overheads are kept to a minimum without compromising the quality of service we offer. We look for ways to keep your costs to a minimum. We will advise you upfront of your likely fees in a transparent way to ensure there are no surprises when it comes to your legal bills. We can be flexible in terms of how you wish to use us and will offer fixed fees where it seems reasonable and would be in your best interests to do so.
JMA HR & Legal © 2016
