MJH – Technology Recruitment for Cambridge
Cambridge Jobs
Search Jobs
Browse Categories
Electronics Jobs
Science Jobs
Management Jobs
Software and IT Jobs
About MJH
Background
Our Approach: Candidates
Our Approach: Clients
What people are saying
Applicants
Clients
Get in Touch
Menu
Find Job
Or browse job offers by category
At MJH, we focus on getting great jobs for great people. We have over 15 years experience in technical, engineering and scientific recruitment and have worked with some of the most exciting, innovative and renowned companies to emerge from Cambridge and the surrounding areas.
Our approach is simple: whatever field you specialise in, we specialise in you. We take time to get to know you and find out, not only what kind of job you want but also how you want to design your career.
If industries specialising in wireless communications, semiconductor design, medical device engineering and consumer electronics (to name but a few) are of interest to you, read on.
Find your perfect role right away! Start your search now
Recent Jobs
Software Engineer – Embedded Permanent
Cambridge, UK
About the Software Engineer – Embedded role Our client is looking for Embedded Software Engineers to join their growing tech team. You need to be sharp, collaborative, a quick learner,…
Systems and Infrastructure Engineer Permanent
Cambridge, UK
About the Systems and Infrastructure Engineer role Our client is looking for a Systems & Infrastructure Engineer whose role will be to maintain and develop their computing infrastructure. The majority…
Software/Senior Software Engineer (C#) Permanent
Cambridge, UK
About the Software/Senior Software Engineer C# role Our client is looking for a software engineer to join their talented development team working on their flagship product. This is an exciting…
Show More Jobs
Latest Jobs
UI Enigneer Permanent
Cambridge, UK
Salary: Excellent salary and benefits package About the UI Engineer role Our client is a seeking a bright and enthusiastic...
Apply For This Job
Systems Architect Permanent
Cambridge, UK
Salary: Excellent salary and benefits package About the Systems Architect role Our client is looking for an experienced systems architect...
Apply For This Job
Senior Technical Writer Permanent
Cambridge, UK
Salary: Excellent salary and benefits package About the Senior Technical Writers role This is an opportunity to work on leading...
Apply For This Job
Software Architect Permanent
Cambridge, UK
About the Software Architect – Digital Services role To be the lead software and technical architect for cloud based platforms...
Apply For This Job
Senior Software Engineer (Python) Permanent
Cambridge, UK
Salary: Excellent salary and benefits package About the Senior SW Engineer Python role The Senior Software Engineer’s role is to...
Apply For This Job
"Many thanks to MJH for all your help in finding me this new position.  I'm delighted to be joining such a great company as this will be such a wonderful opportunity for me."
Hardware Design Engineer, Cambridge
"I'm very grateful to MJH for their assistance in helping me find my new role, and for their professional approach since our very first conversation."
Senior Software Engineer, Technical Consultancy, Cambridge
"I found MJH to be very innovative, discreet and professional when they approached me with details of a new opportunity.  I would recommend them without hesitation."
Electronics Sales Manager, Cambridge
"We have used MJH's services for all of our vacancies over the last few years, for both permanent and contract staff.  All positions have been filled and we are very happy with the service and continue to use MJH as our prime recruitment resource."
Director of IC Engineering, Silicon Labs Europe
"We have worked with MJH for several years and they have provided us with a number of first-class recruits.  It is particularly valuable that MJH takes the time to understand our business and then pro-actively suggests suitable contacts."
Howard Biddle, Managing Director, 42 Technology
"MJH have built up an in-depth understanding of our business needs and culture and their 'Managed Agency' service has helped our UK office to hire and retain the key people that we need."
David Baillie, CEO, CamSemi
"In every case, MJH has taken the trouble to understand our requirements and put forward first class candidates that are well suited to the roles in question.  Their speed of response is excellent and their personal contact is always friendly, professional and informative."
Tom Blackie, Chief Operating Officer, Ubisense
Select a Job Category
Software
Electronics
IT
Mechanical
Graduate
Scientific
Sales and Marketing
Management
About MJH At MJH, we been providing high quality recruitment services throughout Cambridgeshire and East Anglia since 2001. Our clients are companies of all sizes, from hi-tech start-ups to SMEs to international blue chip companies.
Get in touch with us now to see how we can help you best.
LinksMJH Background
Get in Touch
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Website Terms of Use
Follow us
Copyright (C) 2016.
MJH Personnel Associates Ltd
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkRead more
