employment solicitor, employment law and settlement agreements also known as compromise agreements Cambridge and Cambridgeshire, employment law, unfair dismissal, redundancy, constructive dismissal, employee rights, fixed term contracts, employment rights, employment legislation and employment tribunals
"Best to Know Your Legal Rights"
About Me
Settlement Agreements
Guide to Settlement Agreements
For Employees
For Employers
Contracts
Contact Points
- Settlement Agreement
- Contract of Employment
- General Employment Law
My Fees
Contact Me
Enquiries
Testimonials
News & Articles
My Blog
Employment Solicitor
About Me
With over 20 years’ experience in the practice of employment law, across the private and public sectors, I specialise in providing senior executives, managers, professionals and business clients with a high quality employment law and settlement agreement service tailored to their own requirements.
My services include advising
on:
the terms and effect of entering into settlement agreements, also known as compromise agreements;
drafting settlement/compromise agreements;
employment law legislation;
employment rights;
business change, reorganisation and restructuring;
redundancies;
termination of employment;
unfair dismissal;
constructive dismissal;
discrimination at work;
Employment Tribunal proceedings;
changes to terms and conditions of employment;
outsourcing/TUPE transfers;
drafting contracts of employment, consultation documentation and Human Resources policies and procedures;
fixed term contracts;
sickness absence management;
performance management;
grievances and their investigation;
complaints and discipline issues and their investigation.
In addition, I offer a comprehensive advice and drafting service to business clients so that by working practically and proactively on their workforce issues and contracts of employment, policies and procedures:
the risk to clients of employment law proceedings is decreased, saving them time, money and damage to reputation;
the business benefits of good employment relations can be achieved.
I appreciate that employment relations difficulties can be a major distraction from making, and keeping, a business profitable and that this can be a cause of great frustration and concern.
Quite simply, conflict in the workforce affects profitability.
I am here to help and improve matters, so that my clients can concentrate on business success.
I understand my clients’ needs and provide:
a client focussed service in a way that suits them;
commonsense solutions to practical problems;
prompt, to the point, advice, that can be trusted;
a sensible opinion on their chances of litigation success and the likely costs;
transparent fees (with some fixed fees available for non-litigation work);
a “breath of fresh air” positive approach.
To reduce disruption to clients, meetings can be arranged at their offices, if they wish; otherwise client meetings are held at Cambourne Business Park, which has good transport links and ample free car parking or, if clients prefer, at office facilities available in Compass House Vision Park, Histon, Cambridge Business Centre at Cambridge Services, Sheraton House, Castle Park, Cambridge and E-Space North, Littleport, Cambridgeshire.
If a client has been offered a settlement agreement it is not generally necessary for us to meet in person, as the advice can be given over the telephone. However, if a client would prefer to meet, I am of course happy to do so.
In addition to office facilities in Cambridgeshire, client meetings may be arranged at office facilities in Wrest Park Enterprise Centre, Silsoe, Bedfordshire, Dorchester House, Letchworth, Stuart House, Peterborough, Atterbury Lakes, Milton Keynes, as well as in Brentwood, Borehamwood, Chelmsford, Hatfield, Hemel Hempstead, High Wycombe, London, Luton, Milton Keynes, Norwich, Potter's Bar, Rickmansworth, Slough, St Albans, Uxbridge and Watford, details of which can be found on the bottom of my Contact Points page.
Any none e-mail correspondence should be sent to my office address at: Melanie Best Employment Lawyer, 1010 Cambourne Business Park, Cambourne, Cambridge CB23 6DP.
I am committed to providing my clients with high quality legal advice and client care. However, in the event of complaints, these will be handled in accordance with my Complaints Handling Policy, a copy of which is available upon request. Please note that a complainant who is dissatisfied with my handling of their complaint can ask the Legal Ombudsman to consider it and that time limits apply. The Legal Ombudsman can be contacted at PO Box 6806, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, WV1 9WJ, telephone 0300 555 0333,enquiries@legalombudsman.org.uk, www.legalombudsman.org.uk".
Sole practitioner: Melanie Best LLB (Honours)
1010 Cambourne Business Park, Cambourne, Cambridge CB23 6DP
Tel: +44 (0)1223 597832 | Fax: +44(0)1223 598 001 | E-mail: mlb@melaniebestlawyer.co.uk
Solicitors Regulation Authority | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions of Use | Legal Disclaimer
Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA number 521826)
The Solicitors’ Code of Conduct is available on the SRA website at www.rules.sra.org.uk.
