PRECARIOUS WORKERS BRIGADE
PRECARIOUS WORKERS BRIGADE
About
Surviving Internships: A Counter-Guide to Free Labour in the Arts
Training for Exploitation?
Open Letters to Art Institutions
Tools
Actions
Texts
Ethics Code
Links
23 Jan
&nbsp6 notes
Out now: Training for Exploitation?
Our new critical workbook ‘Training For Exploitation? Politicising
Employability and Reclaiming Education’ is now available internationally and as a free download through: http://joaap.org/press/trainingforexploitation.htm This
96-pages workbook is a critical resource pack for educators teaching
employability, ‘professional practice’ and work-based learning.It
provides a pedagogical framework that assists students and others in
deconstructing dominant narratives around work, employability and
careers, and explores alternative ways of engaging with work and the
economy. Training for Exploitation? includes tools for critically
examining the relationship between education, work and the cultural
economy. It provides useful statistics and workshop exercises on topics
such as precarity, employment rights, cooperation and solidarity, as
well as examples of alternative educational and organising practices.
Training for Exploitation? shows how we can both critique and organise
against a system that is at the heart of the contemporary crises of
work, student debt and precarity.'For many years the members of Precarious Workers Brigade have been
developing insightful analyses, tools and actions questioning wageless
and other exploitative forms of labour in the arts and education
sectors. ‘Training for Exploitation?’ is no exception. As an educator I
support the effort the book makes to provide the analysis and the tools
needed to challenge the conversation, now predominant in the classroom,
concerning ‘employability’. As a feminist I recognise many of these
tools from past and contemporary practices of consciousness raising.
They are effective and I encourage readers to use them’. - Silvia FedericiWritten by PWB, Foreword by Silvia FedericiPublished by Journal of Aesthetics & Protest (JOAAP)Designed by Evening Class, Printed by Calverts96 pages, black and white with color coverThe
book is an open invitation to both educators and students to use and
build on. We’d love to hear what you make of it!
Tagged
#TrainingForExploitation
#tools
18 Jan
Join us for the book launch of ‘Training for Exploitation?’ on 1 Feb 2017
Join
us and the book’s designers, Evening Class, on 1 Feb, 7pm at Housmans
bookshop for a celebratory launch of our new publication ‘Training for
Exploitation? Politicising Employability and Reclaiming Education’!
Entry £3, redeemable against any purchaseWith a foreword by Silvia Federici and published by the Journal of
Aesthetics & Protest Press, 'Training for Exploitation?’ is a
critical resource pack for educators teaching employability,
'professional practice’ and work-based learning. Pre-order the book here: http://joaap.org/press/trainingforexploitation.htm. Free download available soon.“For many years the members of the Precarious Workers Brigade  have
been developing insightful analyses, tools and actions questioning
wageless and other exploitative forms of labour in the arts and
education  sectors. 'Training for Exploitation?’ is no exception.As an educator I support the effort the book makes to  provide the
analysis and the tools needed to challenge the conversation, now
predominant in the classroom, concerning 'employability’. As a feminist I
recognise many of these tools from past and contemporary practices of
consciousness raising. They are effective and I encourage readers to
use  them.” - Silvia Federici (from the Foreword) This publication
provides a pedagogical framework that assists students and others in
deconstructing dominant narratives around work, employability and
careers, and explores alternative ways of engaging with work and the
economy. Training for Exploitation? includes tools for critically
examining the relationship between education, work and the cultural
economy. It provides useful statistics and workshop exercises on topics
such as precarity, employment rights, cooperation and solidarity, as
well as examples of alternative educational and organising practices.
Training for Exploitation? shows how we can both critique and organise
against a system that is at the heart of the contemporary crises of
work, student debt and precarity.
Tagged
#TrainingForExploitation
#booklaunch
19 Oct
&nbsp2 notes
PWB Press Release: ‘Training for Exploitation? Politicising Employability and Reclaiming Education’. A forthcoming publication by PWB due out January 2017
Foreword by Silvia Federici. Published by Journal of Aesthetics & Protest Press. £5/10, available online for free. For further information see below, to reserve a copy email editors@joaap.org or precariousworkersbrigade@aktivix.org“Power was trying to teach us individualism and profit… We were not good students.”
Compañera Ana Maria, Zapatista Education Promoter
Training for Exploitation? is a resource pack for educators teaching employability and
work-based learning. It provides a pedagogical framework aimed at assisting students
to deconstruct dominant narratives, develop their critical faculties and explore
alternative ways of engaging with work and the economy.
Work related learning is ever more prevalent in higher education– be it through work
placements, industry projects or career advice sessions. You can’t walk in to a
university these days without seeing the word employability: prizes are given for the
most employable student; employability workshops cover topics such as networking
and personal branding; and many work placements end up being little more than a
way for companies to cash in on free labour disguised as training. But while offering to
provide students with necessary skills and experience to make her more readily
attractive and employable to the labour market, employability also taps in to and feeds
individual insecurity, nurturing the sense of having to continually prove one’s worth
and update one’s skills. The increase in student anxiety and mental health issues are
often related to feelings of insecurity about the future and how to flourish in an
increasingly competitive and insecure labour market.
This 97 page pack in workbook format includes:
tools for critically engaging with education’s relationship to work and the economy
ideas for topics and exercises
a bibliography of related texts
useful statistics and workshop exercises on topics such as precarity, employment rights, cooperation and solidarity
examples of alternative educational and organising practices, alternative economies and other ways of workingPublished by the Journal of Aesthetics & Protest (http://www.joaap.org/)
Designed by Evening Class
For further information or to reserve a copy, please email: editors@joaap.org or
precariousworkersbrigade@aktivix.org
Precarious Workers Brigade (PWB) is a UK-based group of precarious workers in
culture & education. We call out in solidarity with all those struggling to make a living
in this climate of instability and enforced austerity.
PWB’s praxis springs from a shared commitment to developing research and actions
that are practical, relevant and easily shared and applied. If putting an end to
precarity is the social justice we seek, our political project involves developing tactics,
strategies, formats, practices, dispositions, knowledges and tools for making this
happen.
http://precariousworkersbrigade.tumblr.com/
Design by Evening Class. Evening Class is a self-organising design education experiment; flexible environment
where participants can cultivate common interests, develop their research and
collectively shape the class’s agenda. Participants reflect on their practices in wider cultural, social and political contexts
and work closely with London’s different landscapes. They create their own audience,
learn from it and engage with it. The process of the group’s evolution is transparent and publicly observed. Evening
Class intends to make the programme’s materials and references accessible to a wider
audience. The curation of the classes is expected to take many forms and explore different themes. Speakers
and mentors are invited bi-weekly in relation to the current programme.http://evening-class.org/
Tagged
#TrainingForExploitation
#toolbox
27 Sep
&nbsp1 note
Artists’ Union England also writes Letter to Somerset House, calling on a review of the volunteering scheme
https:/www.facebook.com/artistsunionengland/posts/965902656866566
Tagged
#openletter
6 Sep
Our second Open Letter to Somerset House on unpaid labour/volunteering.
It’s our response to Somerset House director Jonathan Reekie’s reply to our initial letter (the latter two are pasted again below our text). We are also tweeting excerpts from the letter at @PWB_CarrotsDate: Tue, 06 Sep 2016 11:43:36 From: Precarious Workers Brigade <precariousworkersbrigade@aktivix.org>Subject: Re: Volunteers at Bjork Digital, Somerset HouseTo: Jonathan Reekie <Jonathan.Reekie@somersethouse.org.uk>Dear JonathanThank you for your response and we appreciate your support for our work.We also greatly appreciate that Somerset House Trust is a London Living Wage employer - this is so important and unfortunately still such an urgent struggle. As you may know we have been supporting cleaners, including at London’s cultural institutions, in their struggles to be treated with respect, paid the Living Wage and receive contractual sick pay.Taking the detailed information you have kindly provided we have calculated that the labour performed by the volunteers amounts to around £36,800 for the exhibition (2 sessions x 10 volunteers per day, 7 hour day on London Living Wage). This breaks down to £526 for volunteers who work 2 shifts per week. For 12 shifts over the course of the exhibition, which you say is the average, it would be almost £400.We are addressing here a disproportionate economy of scale. An institution such as yours has the infrastructure and means to be able to raise, leverage or resource £38,800 additional cost for such a prominent show. But you’re putting the onus on the individual to leverage the contribution they are giving to the exhibition. You say you’re not trying to save money and that the free labour involved is not essential, but enhances the visitor experience. The fact remains, you’re receiving this enhancement free, at an average cost to the volunteers of £400. That’s well over half the monthly rent on a cheap room in South London – an expense many young people regularly struggle to meet. The point is not that certain individuals benefit from the ‘opportunity’ but that the far greater number remain excluded from it, because they cannot afford to work for free.Free labour isn’t working.The point we are making here is in no way a new one. It is well documented how unpaid labour practices in the cultural sector foster inequality, perpetuate privilege and create a lack of diversity [1].Frankly, we are tired of hearing from directors of significant cultural institutions that it benefits the individual to work for free. Quite apart from this the benefit is really to Somerset House, the exhibition and Bjork. In addition to expenditure saved, Somerset House and Bjork as brands clearly benefit from the labour of the volunteers. Volunteers enhance the visitor’s experience and perception of the brands, which translates into future growth of their brands value.We would like to underline that the Bjork exhibition is merely one instance in an endemic landscape of exploitative cultural labour.In a climate of austerity and youth unemployment it is a missed opportunity on your part to be a leader and to address the structural inequalities and injustices of the cultural sector. We are saying that the ‘opportunity’ you are presenting is far too narrow. It is not, as you are inferring, about taking away these ‘opportunities’, but rather offering them as paid jobs, not free labour with the promise of a future (a disappearing horizon).With kind regards,Precarious Workers Brigade[1] “Middle class people dominate arts, survey finds”, The Guardian, 23 Nov 2015.https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2015/nov/23/middle-class-people-dominate-arts-survey-finds—-Somerset House Director Jonathan Reekie’s response to our Open LetterFrom: Jonathan Reekie <Jonathan.Reekie@somersethouse.org.uk>To: “precariousworkersbrigade@aktivix.org“ Date: Thu, 1 Sep 2016 16:42:20 Subject: Volunteers at Bjork Digital, Somerset HouseDear Precarious Workers BrigadeThanks for your email. We are wholly committed to a fair, ethical and transparent system of pay and conditions for all of those who work at Somerset House and support the work that you are doing.  I believe our use of volunteers on Bjork Digital fits this commitment.Like many cultural venues we do use volunteers for certain roles. A key element is that volunteering must benefit the volunteer, as well as Somerset House Trust and our visitors.Our policy is that volunteers at Somerset House never act as a substitute for paid employees and the Trust does not recruit volunteers to replace or displace them.Bjork Digital uses a full complement of paid staff (about 18 per session) who are all paid the London Living Wage. The volunteers are not needed to run the show, though they do enhance the visitor experience. Volunteers are not under any kind of contract and we are totally dependent on their goodwill and commitment to turn up.  The suggestion that additional volunteering opportunities were offered as part of Bjork Digital was made by the technical team involved, as they felt there are a number of people who would like to get the rare chance of first-hand experience of this new technology.  As with our other volunteering opportunities they can claim travel expenses (up to £6) and refreshments (up to £6). As part of this project the volunteers will be invited to talks and a workshop given by the technical team, so they can learn more about the VR technology being used.  Currently 60 volunteers are involved. The aim is to have 10 volunteers for each morning session and 10 for each afternoon session, every day over the 8 week run.  Most volunteers have indicated their interest in doing 2 half day sessions each week and their involvement ranges from 5 to 21 sessions over the exhibition run with an average of 12 sessions per volunteer.  The aim of this level of commitment is to allow volunteers to fit in this activity with studies, work or other pursuits without detriment – financial or otherwise. We also take care to comply with the guidelines for volunteer roles advertised on various websites – vinspired, TeamLondon, ArtsJobs.We hope that volunteers receive some of the following benefitsPut existing experience to good use         Be challengedLearn a new skillGain references for a job or collegeBe supported by a professional, experienced teamHave an enjoyable experience and make new contactsAs well as the fact that we could operate the show without the volunteers, I would also like to reassure you that we are not doing this to save money despite the fact that neither the Trust nor Bjork are making any direct financial gain from this project.Elsewhere in the Trust in the last two years, since I joined as Director, I have personally ensured that all our own and contract staff (cleaners and security etc) have been moved to the London Living Wage. We also pay all interns.  With the negative comments it would seem sensible for us to cease using volunteers for Bjork Digital, however given the positive feedback from the volunteers themselves, I’m not sure what the benefit would be of removing this opportunity.I hope this clarifies the situation.Best wishesJonathanJonathan ReekieDirectorSomerset House Trust—–—-Our Open Letter to Somerset House:To: volunteer@somersethouse.org.uk, info@somersethouse.org.uk, farhana.begum@somersethouse.org.uk (HR Officer), jonathan.reekie@somersethouse.org.uk (Director), claire.catterall@somersethouse.org.uk (Director of Exhibitions and Learning)Dear Somerset House,We noticed that you were calling for volunteers to work on the Bjork Digital exhibition, which is opening today.Whilst we are not against volunteering per se and agree that many people can decide to volunteer at a local organisation for all sorts of reasons and at different stages in life, for many young people particularly at the moment, unpaid work seems to be the only option to get a foot in the door.We are concerned that by not paying people, only those who can afford to work for free will be able to benefit from these positions. As volunteering is becoming more prevalent, those who are unable to take up these unpaid ‘opportunities’ are less likely to enter the sector.But in this instance, the calling on Bjork’s ‘fans’ to freely bring their skills, time and interest - essentially subsidising the charity/company’s £15 ticketed exhibition by adding value to the visitors’ experience and financial value to the Somerset House brand [1], as well as to a wealthy established artist/icon, seems particularly insulting when again this could so easily have been an actual opportunity to offer young creatives paid work.In addition to this we question your response to an enquiry by artnet News, where you state that “Volunteers at Somerset House never act as a substitute for paid employees and the Trust does not recruit volunteers to replace or displace them.” [2] We would like you to further qualify this claim, for example in the context of the Bjork exhibition.At a time when youth unemployment is skyrocketing, institutions such as yours should be doing everything they can to provide paid opportunities and training.We have in recent years had success in pressuring other high profile arts organisations into complying to national minimum wage guidelines, and structuring their internship and volunteer programmes to not only being legally and ethically sound but to ensure they offer genuinely worthwhile opportunities to all people regardless of their background. Given that your organisation envisions itself to be a “cultural powerhouse” (Somerset House Annual Report 2014/15) we would be interested in hearing how you aim to provide not only these basic standards, but to set a precendent and raise the bar for a cultural sector that really recognises the value and supports people’s access and ability to make a living in the creative economy.Given that this is part of a public consciousness raising debate as well a development of best practice this open letter and all responses will be published on our website www.precariousworkersbrigade.tumblr.comWe look forward to hearing your responses to the concerns raised.With best regards,Precarious Workers Brigade[1] Indeed, according to the 2014/15 Annual Review the 130 volunteers working at Somerset House Trust in 2014/15 (2013/14: 250 volunteers) “collectively contributed time equivalent to 10,320 working hours, with an estimated value of approximately £107,500 (2013/14: £105,000).” Available at:http://www.somersethouse.org.uk/documents/20151061244SHT%20Annual%20Report%202014-15.pdf[2] https://news.artnet.com/art-world/museum-unpaid-workers-bjork-619625
Tagged
#open letter
#volunteering
#free labour isnt working
2 Sep
Somerset House director Jonathan Reekie’s response to our Open Letter
From: Jonathan Reekie <Jonathan.Reekie@somersethouse.org.uk>To: “precariousworkersbrigade@aktivix.org" Date: Thu, 1 Sep 2016 16:42:20 Subject: Volunteers at Bjork Digital, Somerset HouseDear Precarious Workers BrigadeThanks for your email. We are wholly committed to a fair, ethical and transparent system of pay and conditions for all of those who work at Somerset House and support the work that you are doing.  I believe our use of volunteers on Bjork Digital fits this commitment.Like many cultural venues we do use volunteers for certain roles. A key element is that volunteering must benefit the volunteer, as well as Somerset House Trust and our visitors.Our policy is that volunteers at Somerset House never act as a substitute for paid employees and the Trust does not recruit volunteers to replace or displace them.Bjork Digital uses a full complement of paid staff (about 18 per session) who are all paid the London Living Wage. The volunteers are not needed to run the show, though they do enhance the visitor experience. Volunteers are not under any kind of contract and we are totally dependent on their goodwill and commitment to turn up.  The suggestion that additional volunteering opportunities were offered as part of Bjork Digital was made by the technical team involved, as they felt there are a number of people who would like to get the rare chance of first-hand experience of this new technology.  As with our other volunteering opportunities they can claim travel expenses (up to £6) and refreshments (up to £6). As part of this project the volunteers will be invited to talks and a workshop given by the technical team, so they can learn more about the VR technology being used.  Currently 60 volunteers are involved. The aim is to have 10 volunteers for each morning session and 10 for each afternoon session, every day over the 8 week run.  Most volunteers have indicated their interest in doing 2 half day sessions each week and their involvement ranges from 5 to 21 sessions over the exhibition run with an average of 12 sessions per volunteer.  The aim of this level of commitment is to allow volunteers to fit in this activity with studies, work or other pursuits without detriment – financial or otherwise. We also take care to comply with the guidelines for volunteer roles advertised on various websites – vinspired, TeamLondon, ArtsJobs.We hope that volunteers receive some of the following benefitsPut existing experience to good use         Be challengedLearn a new skillGain references for a job or collegeBe supported by a professional, experienced teamHave an enjoyable experience and make new contactsAs well as the fact that we could operate the show without the volunteers, I would also like to reassure you that we are not doing this to save money despite the fact that neither the Trust nor Bjork are making any direct financial gain from this project.Elsewhere in the Trust in the last two years, since I joined as Director, I have personally ensured that all our own and contract staff (cleaners and security etc) have been moved to the London Living Wage. We also pay all interns.  With the negative comments it would seem sensible for us to cease using volunteers for Bjork Digital, however given the positive feedback from the volunteers themselves, I’m not sure what the benefit would be of removing this opportunity.I hope this clarifies the situation.Best wishesJonathanJonathan ReekieDirectorSomerset House Trust—–Our Open Letter to Somerset House:To: volunteer@somersethouse.org.uk, info@somersethouse.org.uk, farhana.begum@somersethouse.org.uk (HR Officer), jonathan.reekie@somersethouse.org.uk (Director), claire.catterall@somersethouse.org.uk (Director of Exhibitions and Learning)Dear Somerset House,We noticed that you were calling for volunteers to work on the Bjork Digital exhibition, which is opening today.Whilst we are not against volunteering per se and agree that many people can decide to volunteer at a local organisation for all sorts of reasons and at different stages in life, for many young people particularly at the moment, unpaid work seems to be the only option to get a foot in the door.We are concerned that by not paying people, only those who can afford to work for free will be able to benefit from these positions. As volunteering is becoming more prevalent, those who are unable to take up these unpaid ‘opportunities’ are less likely to enter the sector.But in this instance, the calling on Bjork’s ‘fans’ to freely bring their skills, time and interest - essentially subsidising the charity/company’s £15 ticketed exhibition by adding value to the visitors’ experience and financial value to the Somerset House brand [1], as well as to a wealthy established artist/icon, seems particularly insulting when again this could so easily have been an actual opportunity to offer young creatives paid work.In addition to this we question your response to an enquiry by artnet News, where you state that “Volunteers at Somerset House never act as a substitute for paid employees and the Trust does not recruit volunteers to replace or displace them.” [2] We would like you to further qualify this claim, for example in the context of the Bjork exhibition.At a time when youth unemployment is skyrocketing, institutions such as yours should be doing everything they can to provide paid opportunities and training.We have in recent years had success in pressuring other high profile arts organisations into complying to national minimum wage guidelines, and structuring their internship and volunteer programmes to not only being legally and ethically sound but to ensure they offer genuinely worthwhile opportunities to all people regardless of their background. Given that your organisation envisions itself to be a “cultural powerhouse” (Somerset House Annual Report 2014/15) we would be interested in hearing how you aim to provide not only these basic standards, but to set a precendent and raise the bar for a cultural sector that really recognises the value and supports people’s access and ability to make a living in the creative economy.Given that this is part of a public consciousness raising debate as well a development of best practice this open letter and all responses will be published on our website www.precariousworkersbrigade.tumblr.comWe look forward to hearing your responses to the concerns raised.With best regards,Precarious Workers Brigade[1] Indeed, according to the 2014/15 Annual Review the 130 volunteers working at Somerset House Trust in 2014/15 (2013/14: 250 volunteers) “collectively contributed time equivalent to 10,320 working hours, with an estimated value of approximately £107,500 (2013/14: £105,000).” Available at:http://www.somersethouse.org.uk/documents/20151061244SHT%20Annual%20Report%202014-15.pdf[2] https://news.artnet.com/art-world/museum-unpaid-workers-bjork-619625
Tagged
#open letter
1 Sep
&nbsp3 notes
Open Letter to Somerset House from PWB
To: volunteer@somersethouse.org.uk, info@somersethouse.org.uk, farhana.begum@somersethouse.org.uk (HR Officer), jonathan.reekie@somersethouse.org.uk (Director), claire.catterall@somersethouse.org.uk (Director of Exhibitions and Learning)Dear Somerset House,We noticed that you were calling for volunteers to work on the Bjork Digital exhibition, which is opening today.Whilst we are not against volunteering per se and agree that many people can decide to volunteer at a local organisation for all sorts of reasons and at different stages in life, for many young people particularly at the moment, unpaid work seems to be the only option to get a foot in the door. We are concerned that by not paying people, only those who can afford to work for free will be able to benefit from these positions. As volunteering is becoming more prevalent, those who are unable to take up these unpaid ‘opportunities’ are less likely to enter the sector.But in this instance, the calling on Bjork’s ‘fans’ to freely bring their skills, time and interest - essentially subsidising the charity/company’s £15 ticketed exhibition by adding value to the visitors’ experience and financial value to the Somerset House brand [1], as well as to a wealthy established artist/icon, seems particularly insulting when again this could so easily have been an actual opportunity to offer young creatives paid work. In addition to this we question your response to an enquiry by artnet News, where you state that “Volunteers at Somerset House never act as a substitute for paid employees and the Trust does not recruit volunteers to replace or displace them.” [2] We would like you to further qualify this claim, for example in the context of the Bjork exhibition. At a time when youth unemployment is skyrocketing, institutions such as yours should be doing everything they can to provide paid opportunities and training. We have in recent years had success in pressuring other high profile arts organisations into complying to national minimum wage guidelines, and structuring their internship and volunteer programmes to not only being legally and ethically sound but to ensure they offer genuinely worthwhile opportunities to all people regardless of their background. Given that your organisation envisions itself to be a “cultural powerhouse” (Somerset House Annual Report 2014/15) we would be interested in hearing how you aim to provide not only these basic standards, but to set a precendent and raise the bar for a cultural sector that really recognises the value and supports people’s access and ability to make a living in the creative economy.Given that this is part of a public consciousness raising debate as well a development of best practice this open letter and all responses will be published on our website www.precariousworkersbrigade.tumblr.comWe look forward to hearing your responses to the concerns raised.With best regards,Precarious Workers Brigade[1] Indeed, according to the 2014/15 Annual Review the 130 volunteers working at Somerset House Trust in 2014/15 (2013/14: 250 volunteers) “collectively contributed time equivalent to 10,320 working hours, with an estimated value of approximately £107,500 (2013/14: £105,000).” Available at: http://www.somersethouse.org.uk/documents/20151061244SHT%20Annual%20Report%202014-15.pdf[2] https://news.artnet.com/art-world/museum-unpaid-workers-bjork-619625
Tagged
#open letter
#payyourworkers
#volunteering
17 Jan
&nbsp1 note
PWB update
After ten years of organising around precarity and in response to changing conditions, PWB and Carrotworkers’ Collective are going through a period of thinking and regrouping and getting an updated version of Training for Exploitation? ready for publication in September. We’re not accepting any new project invitations.However, if you are organising a workshop, or are interested in learning more about our work please have a look through our blog: You can find info to help you run your own workshop in the TOOLS section.Or have a look at the TEXT and ETHICS CODE sections if you want to learn more about PWB (publications, interviews, our guiding principles etc.).
2 Jul
&nbsp6 notes
Sotheby’s fires workers demanding a decent wage/sick pay!
OUTRAGEOUS NEWS FROM Sotheby’s: They just sacked the cleaners and porters who took part in the protest for sick pay and against victimisation yesterday!! It was a fantastic protest (see ArtNews coverage below), with lots of solidarity from other groups and sym- pathy from passers by. Now, they’re gonna need even more support to fight for the reinstatement of their members. Please support any way you can: tweet @Sothebys, email them here, forward the info to journalist friends, join the next protest, get involved in the campaign. Get in touch with United Voices of the World if you need more info or want to help! Sotheby’s made £130.4 million, the highest contemporary sale for it ever, in the auction last night, and yet they fire those who demand a decent wage/sick pay!Protesters outside Sotheby’s London evening contemporary auction.Photo: Simon de Pury via InstagramWage Protest Sullies Sotheby’s London Contemporary SaleEileen Kinsella, Wednesday, July 1, 2015At Sotheby’s London’s Bond Street headquarters this evening, July 1, where an Andy Warhol dollar bill just sold for a breathtaking $32.8 million, protestors gathered outside the building.Protestors were members of the union representing the contracted cleaning service that Sotheby’s had recently dropped. According to aFacebook post by the union, United Voice of the World (UVW), which included the cri de coeur “Dignity Under the Hammer,” a protest had been planned for July 1.The cancellation of CCML came about just a month after the cleaning service had won an extensive campaign to earn a London hourly living wage of £9.15 per hour ($14.40) (which included back pay).After letting the cleaning service go, the auction house brought on a different cleaning service called “Servest.” A UVW worker told Paddy Johnson, of Art F City, that the contract differs markedly from the one negotiated with CCML. As a result, Sotheby’s allegedly does not have to implement contractual sick pay or back pay per the London Living Wage.Servest further threatened its employees with disciplinary action if they choose to exercise their right to protest the retraction of the favorable terms first agreed to by CCML, according to Art F City.“Servest and Sotheby’s have teamed up to deny the cleaners their hard fought for rights,“ a UVW spokesperson told Art F City. "They are also engaging in shameless union-busting tactics. The cleaners, however, will not be intimidated. This fight will be fought until Servest apologizes and Sotheby’s agrees to backdate the Living Wage and introduce contractual sick pay for the cleaners. It is time they stopped treating them like second class employees.”We reached out to Sotheby’s for comment but had not heard back by publication time.
17 May
&nbsp54 notes
Second protest at the Barbican this month!
Cultural workers joined the cleaners at the Barbican once again in a fantastic protest yesterday. The cleaners, with their union United Voices of the World, are (still) campaigning for the current London Living Wage of £9.15 p/hour, proper sick pay, and an end to bullying, harassment and victimisation by contractors MITIE. The Open School East Associates and members of the Artists’ Union England came out in support with us. The beautiful ‘Sick Pay Now’ and 'We Are All Albeiro’ placards were made with the Riso Club at the Common House.Important: Tweet your support for the cleaners at @BarbicanCentre @wearemitiePhotos (except 1st one) by Peter Marshall
Tagged
#culturalworkersinsolidaritywithunions
#actions
12 May
&nbsp8 notes
Gulf Labor and Other Arts Groups Occupy Venice’s Guggenheim #GuggOccupied (8 May 2015)
Protesters outside the Peggy Guggenheim Collection (all photos by the author for Hyperallergic)Hrag Vartanian, 8 May 2015, Hyperallergic.com VENICE — At 10:20am this morning, two boatloads of artists and activists occupied the dock landing of the Peggy Guggenheim Collection (PGC) in Venice. It marks the first joint action between GULF (Gulf Ultra Luxury Faction) and Gulf Labor, which is an official participant in the 2015 Venice Biennale, and two Italian organizations, Sale Docks in Venice and Macao from Milan — an independent art space which started organizing art workers in 2012. The crowd of roughly 40 people are hoisting banners and flags that read, “Meet Workers’ Demands” and other labor-related messages. The museum occupation is the latest effort to highlight labor issues impacting migrant workers at Saadiyat Island, where Guggenheim Abu Dhabi, Louvre Abu Dhabi, and other luxury culture brands are building outposts.“We organized the AbStrike [abstract strike] event in Venice and Milan and we’ve been involved with Gulf Labor for over a year,” Emanuele Braga of Macao told Hyperallergic. “AbStrike is exploring the possibilities for strikes for cultural workers. We gathered various projects that explore the issue of artist workers and debt, among other issues. We did joint events in Venice and Milan, which is hosting Expo [that is having labor issues], to also see how these models that are both pushing forward this model of labor precarity and build up a different type of consciousness in the workers and raise awareness in the communities and the media.”The event is the first “official” event of Gulf Labor’s Biennale participation, according to New York University professor Andrew Ross, who made headlines in March when he was banned from visiting the United Arab Emirates.Members of Gulf Labor occupy the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice with a banner that reads “Meet Workers’ Demands”“This is a continuation of last week’s action [at the Guggenheim in New York] and our demands are the same,” Ross said. “We were treated with disdain by Guggenheim authorities last week, who would rather shut down the museum than speak to us. We’re only amplifying the workers demands and using our volunteer effort and labor to do so. They are not treating our demands with the seriousness they deserve. We’re acting here in our official capacity as participants in the Venice Biennale. It’s the first joint action between GULF Gulf Labor.”Ross added: “We’re also highlighting 120 years of underpayment at the Venice Biennale. Exhibitions like the Biennale are entirely run by unpaid or underpaid labor, or in the case of one pavilion, artists were asked to pay to participate.”The intent is to have a continuing, perhaps roving, occupation as a way to mimic the worldwide reach of corporations. “The museum behaves as a global corporation so it has to reflect that global nature, and it should happen in Bilbao and elsewhere until they respond with a call of action,” says Nitasha Dhillon of GULF.Gulf Labor is an invited participant in the 2015 Venice Biennale’s central exhibition, All the World’s Futures, which is curated by Okwui Enwezor. They are a coalition of artists, writers, architects, curators, and other cultural workers who have been working to ensure that “workers’ rights are protected when contemporary art, precarious labor, and global capital intersect.” The group is planning to produce a public report in a series of plenary sessions dedicated to its investigations of labor conditions in the Persian Gulf and South Asia.The flyer being distributed at today’s protest)We will update this story as it evolves.
11 May
&nbsp1 note
Critical Citizenship Activism and Art: Rights of Labour - video of the event
To celebrate May Day, groups shared their campaigns for better working conditions in the arts, in the UK and the US. With Precarious Workers Brigade, W.A.G.E and Intern Labour Rights. Nottingham Contemporary, 29 April 2015.
3 May
Upcoming event: Cultural worker + cleaner solidarity. 10 May, 6.30 - 8.30pm, Common House
Given the recently renewed cleaner’s protest at the Barbican we want to discuss how workers in cultural institutions could connect with each other in solidarity and what they could learn from each other in terms of organising and protest tactics. In the last years we have seen interns, cultural workers and cleaners campaign against the precarious conditions they respectively experience in the cultural sector. Campaigns against unpaid internships, underpaid and short term art project gigs and outsourced below-Living Wage jobs have sometimes been successful and share tactics (eg naming and shaming of institutions, and anybody who has joined a cleaner’s protest in London recently will know that these are perhaps the most creative, musical, bold and joyful protests!) – but rarely are these struggles coordinated or connected.We’ll be screening the short doc Waging a Living in London and a clip from the more recent protests, followed by a discussion hosted by the Barbican cleaners, their union United Voices of the World, and Precarious Workers Brigade. We would love it if artists, interns, cultural workers would join us!10 May, 6.30 - 8.30pm, The Common House, Unit 5E Pundersons Gardens, Bethnal Green, London E2 9QGp.s. more info on the cleaner’s campaign here. You can tweet your support for their demand of the Living Wage and sick pay @BarbicanCentre
Tagged
#solidarity
#artworkerssupportcleaners
#livingwage
#barbican
#mitie
#actions
2 May
&nbsp1 note
Happy (belated) May Day! From NY to Abu Dhabi
News from yesterday:My #GuggOccupied report, up to date with occupiers’ declaration and @Guggenheim statement: http://t.co/HbUVkQYB84 pic.twitter.com/qO3PsmcRwt— Benjamin Sutton (@bhsutton) May 2, 2015Gorilla girls outside the Guggenheim in solidarity #guggoccupied pic.twitter.com/wnDaFFqRQF— Ayasha Guerin (@urban_praxis) May 1, 2015So proud to be part of the demo that shut down the Guggenheim over outrageous labor practices in Abu Dhabi (and in NY!) #GuggOccupied— Guerrilla Girls (@guerrillagirls) May 1, 2015Ready! Meet us tomorrow (Sat) in NY on the NW corner of 24th St & 10th Ave 3pm #guerrillagirls pic.twitter.com/wGvP6ucpqt— Guerrilla Girls (@guerrillagirls) May 1, 2015
28 Apr
&nbsp49 notes
‘Unpaid Internships, Work Experience, Volunteering - how to earn nothing and learn little’, 1 May, LCC
We’re doing a workshop at this public event for students, graduates and interns hosted by Future Interns. There will be a discussion with a.o. really interesting guests from France, the Collectif Génération Précaire, workshops on employment rights and one by us, and a screening of the film ‘Generation Unpaid’ by Sylvia Mulder.Please spread the word to anybody interested (your students, recent graduates, friends, fellow interns…). Event info: https://www.facebook.com/events/687821231328121/?ref_newsfeed_story_type=regular1 May 2015, 1-5pm, London College of Communication, room T304.
Next >>>
Archive /
Random post /
RSS
Powered by Tumblr -
Quite Big theme by George Dunkley
