Cleaning and Housekeeping Services In Cambridge
Proactive Selection
Staffing solutions for Cambridge and beyond
info@proactiveselection.com
t: 01223 911203m: 07501223222f: 0870 1236474
MenuHomeContactCandidates
Staffing Services in Cambridge
Proactive Selection is a small independent employment businesses specialising in the supply of temporary and contract staff.
We work quietly and efficiently and we do not give up. If the client expectation and rate of pay is reasonable, we will find suitable applicants who are able and willing to take on assignments at home and abroad.
Share this:Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)Click to print (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Copyright © 2017 Proactive Selection
Site by Profitengineers
We have not met anyone who does not use or know Facebook. We have chosen this as our first on-line marketing medium and we need your help to spread the word about the page. Please start liking and share the Cambridge Doms Facebook page  with all your friends, family and work colleagues, or even your next door neighbours.
To show you how much we appreciate your help, will offer you a range of rewards, depending on the level of support we receive from you. Get enough mutual likes on your page and tell us when you have:
20 mutual likes on our Facebook Page and we’ll give you £10 off your next clean.
40 mutual likes on our Facebook Page and we’ll give you £25 off your next clean.
80 mutual likes on our Facebook Page and we’ll give you £50 off your next clean.
Claiming your reward could not be easier. Once you have got the required number of likes, simply take a snapshot and email it to  marketing@cambridgedoms.co.uk with your name and address. We will then immediately register the discount against your account to be used on the next clean. Please note only one reward per person on this occasion so if you would like to wait until you hit the top reward (80 + mutual likes) then please only email your snapshot once you are ready to use the reward.
×
A big “Thank You” to all our clients for their support and for trusting us with their requirements during 2015.
We hope you have had a lovely Christmas.
We wish you a Very Happy New Year and we look forward to serving you in 2016.
We’ll be back on 4 January 2016.
However, if your cleaning day falls within the closing period, or if you have booked any services to be delivered during this period, please rest assured it will be done as arranged unless you have contacted us and asked to have the date changed.
×
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
