Institute For Fiscal Studies - IFS
Warning !
You do not have Javascript enabled in your browser.
The IFS site will not work with Javascript disabled.
If you do not know how to "enable Javascript" in your browser,
please click here
to see how it is done.
The IFS team.
Advanced search
Publications
Research Areas
Research Centres
People
Events
News
Tools and Resources
About
Our goal at the Institute for Fiscal Studies is to promote effective economic and social policies by better understanding
how policies affect individuals, families, businesses and the government's finances.
IFS Green Budget 2017
7 February 2017
The IFS Green Budget 2017, in association with ICAEW and funded by the Nuffield Foundation, analyses the issues and challenges facing Chancellor Philip Hammond as he prepares for his first Budget. The findings from a selection of chapters were presented at Guildhall in London, where the report was launched. The report and presentation slides are online now.
Find out more
Apprenticeships policy risks poor value for money 31 January 2017
A desire to expand the system of apprenticeships has been expressed by all major UK political parties and the current government’s focus on apprenticeships builds on commitments under the previous coalition and Labour governments. However, new IFS research shows that the significant expansion and design of the new system risks it being poor value for money and could end up being particularly damaging to the public sector.
Find out more
Big rise in low paid men working part-time 13 January 2017
Twenty years ago only 1 in 20 men aged 25 to 55 with low hourly wages worked part-time. Today 1 in 5 of this group work part-time: a four-fold increase. This is the result of a steady trend – not just the recent recession. Meanwhile the proportion of middle- and high- wage men working part-time remains extremely low, at less than 1 in 20.
Hence, for men low hourly wages and low hours of work increasingly go together and this has become an important driver of inequality in their pay.
Find out more
Inheritance and inequality 5 January 2017
Younger generations are likely to inherit much more wealth than their predecessors did, both in absolute terms and relative to their other sources of wealth. But within each generation, those who are already well off tend to inherit the most - with important implications for inequality and social mobility. These are the main findings of new IFS research.
Find out more
How far do today’s social care announcements address social care funding concerns? 16 December 2016
In yesterday’s English Provisional Local Government Finance Settlement, the government announced councils will be able to set a ‘Social Care Precept’ of 3% a year over the next two years, rather than the 2% a year previously planned, to raise additional funds for adult social care. In this Observation we look at possible implications for short-term council tax rises, but also at the contrainsts placed on councils by the cap in rises over the next three years.
Find out more
Sweetening the sugar tax? 16 December 2016
In Budget 2016 the Chancellor announced a ‘soft drinks industry levy’ that aims to reduce consumption of sugar sweetened soft drinks. The levy is due to take effect from April 2018 with two rates, one applying to mid-sugar drinks and a higher rate applying to high-sugar drinks. A recent article in The Lancet: Public Health considers the possible consequences of the levy for a series of health outcomes, such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and dental care. In this Observation we propose a simple change to the soft drinks levy which would increase the likelihood of it having a beneficial effect on these outcomes.
Find out more
We have the chance to rewrite Britain’s tax rules 13 December 2016
Leaving the EU gives us the chance to do things better - and worse - with government tax policy. Let’s use the control we are about to regain wisely and not throw it away on short term opportunism, writes IFS Director Paul Johnson in The Times.
Find out more
Budget analysis
IFS analysis of government fiscal events
Green Budgets
Annual IFS analysis for forthcoming Budgets
Mirrlees Review
A tax system for the 21st century
Fiscal facts
Information and data on taxes, benefits and public finances
Centre for the Microeconomic Analysis of Public Policy
ESRC Centre at the heart of IFS research
Recent news
16 February 2017
IFS Associate Director, Cormac O'Dea, awarded Netspar PhD thesis award
9 February 2017
IFS Deputy Director, Carl Emmerson, appointed to DWP expert advisory group on the automatic enrolment review
7 February 2017
Spending cuts to accelerate as tax burden rises to highest level in over 30 years
2 February 2017
Differences in the way the tax system treats the self-employed, owner-managers and employees are costly, inefficient and unfair
31 January 2017
Target of 3 million apprenticeships and new funding system risk poor value for money
30 January 2017
Luke Sibieta gives evidence to Select Committee
16 January 2017
Use new Budget as a springboard for wider tax policy reform
Recent publications
13 February 2017
Fair funding for taxing times? Assessing the fiscal framework agreement
13 February 2017
Optimal sup-norm rates and uniform inference on nonlinear functionals of nonparametric IV regression
10 February 2017
An econometric model of network formation with degree heterogeneity
10 February 2017
How will the receipt of social care change in future?
10 February 2017
The prevalence and dynamics of social care receipt
7 February 2017
Challenges for the UK public finances
7 February 2017
The global economy
Explore
Publications
Research Areas
Research Centres
People
Events
News
Tools and Resources
About
Jobs
Legal
Disclaimer
Privacy
Copyright
Accessibility
Code of conduct
Follow us
Sign up to IFS alerts
Twitter
Contact
The Institute for Fiscal Studies
Tel: 020 7291 4800
Fax: 020 7323 4780
Email: mailbox@ifs.org.uk
7 Ridgmount Street
London WC1E 7AE
Limited by guarantee, registered in England: 954616. Registered charity: 258815
© 2017 The Institute for Fiscal Studies
