mployability | advanced recruiting & people search
mployability
advanced recruiting & people search
Navigation
What We Do
Right-Now Recruiting & Expertise Scouting
Natural Language Technology
Sciences
Expertise Identification & Pipelining
Advanced Job Search
About Us
Our Team
Latest Jobs
Blog
Contact
Advanced Job Search
Most job search advice completely ignores the complexities of job hunting in a switched-on, digital world.  Until now. See how our range of Advanced Job Search training and services can help you find your way.
Expertise Identification & Pipelining
Get access to the expertise you need, on your terms – and without having to pay costly introduction fees.
Right-Now People Search & Expertise Scouting
We help some of the world’s leading technology companies solve their most complex and demanding expertise supply problems.  Finding the right people…whatever the environment.
Natural Language Technology
We’re the world’s leading introducer of talent to companies working in the Natural Language Technology space.  Find out how we can connect you to the talent you need.
right-now expertise scouting | information services | people search & identification
What We Do
We provide tech companies with access to the expertise they need to grow their businesses, and help tech job-seekers navigate the sometimes crazy job-hunting world.
More
Careers in Natural Language Technology
We specialise in people-finding in the Natural Language Technology market.
Click here to sign up for our exclusive, free monthly digest of Natural Language opportunities.
Expertise Identification & Pipelining
Want access to hard-to-find expertise but don't want to pay costly and inflexible introduction fees?
Our expertise identification and pipelining team can help.
Click here to find out how it works...
Tech Job-Seeking in the Post-Apocalyptic Economy
An overview of essential job-seeking tactics that will work - even in the toughest of markets.
It's not 2009 any more, but this remains a great summary of essential advanced job search techniques.
We are a next-generation people search and recruiting services company in the tech industry.
We identify, approach and attract hard-to-find expertise on behalf of world-class software companies, technology consulting firms and internationally-renowned end-user organisations.
Using a combination of our “right-now” expertise scouting methodology and our established pipelining infrastructure, we work with a diverse range of tech companies, helping them to overcome complex expertise attraction problems.
Typically, our customers face similar challenges: serious restrictions on their access to the expertise their businesses need to thrive. we allow them to continue to enjoy solving some of the world’s most demanding technical problems; we enjoy solving some of the world’s most demanding expertise supply problems.
We are also heavily involved in Advanced Jobseeker training: offering advice and practical solutions to people looking to harness the power of an increasingly open and social web in their jobseeking activities.
Recent Posts
Why Language Technology?
From Linguistics to Computational Linguistics
Help the Guys Get Round in Support of Harry’s Rainbow
Latest Jobs
No job listings found.
Quick NavContact
About Us
Our Team
We Don’t Spam
Search Jobs
Search Keyword
Follow Us!
mployability © 2017. All Rights Reserved.
Contact
About Us
Our Team
We Don’t Spam
UA-19909989-1
