Coal Research Forum | Home
Coal Research Forum
Promoting coal science and engineering in the UK
Home
Divisions
Committee
Meetings
Conference
Members
Documents
History
News
Next CRF event
Current newsletter
Invitation to join
Membership Form
Welcome to the Coal Research Forum
Coal research is, once again, a hot topic. Coal is recognised worldwide as an essential component of the energy mix required for modern life styles, because it provides a widely-distributed, secure and reliable source of energy that is relatively easy to obtain. Clean coal technology is the order of the day, with particular attention being paid to carbon capture and storage in view of global warming and carbon dioxide emissions from coal usage.
It is in the context of the challenges associated with coal utilisation in the UK that the Coal Research Forum acts as a focal point, providing a means of communication between industry, universities and policy-makers. Our technical divisions organise meetings on a wide variety of current issues throughout the year. We hold an annual meeting to report on the activities of the Forum and provide an update on current policies and funding opportunities, and our biennial conference on 'Coal Research and its Applications' has become an established international event. We gather and publicise information through a variety of documents and keep our members informed of coal-related news through three issues of the CRF Newsletter each year.
Aims
Our three main aims are:
To provide a
forum for the exchange of information between technology providers and key
stakeholders.
To support the
utilisation of coal in the UK
as a secure primary source of energy, and,
To promote UK research and expertise on the utilisation of
coal, biomass and other fossil fuels in the UK and to a worldwide audience.
We work to achieve these aims
by:
To contribute to
and encourage the development of a national policy for research on coal,
biomass and other fossil fuels in the UK.
To promote coal
and energy research, (including biomass and other fossil fuels), regarding
funding bodies.
To encourage and
promote the submission of proposals on coal research.
To record
successful applications for funds for UK coal research.
To encourage the
dissemination and exchange of information on coal, biomass and other fossil
fuels research.
To further
develop the co-ordination of coal, biomass and other fossil fuels research
activities through interchange between coal research groups and others.
To publicise the
achievements and successes of coal research in the United Kingdom.
Contact details
Please email the Secretary, David McCaffrey (mail@coalresearchforum.org) for further information.
The Coal Research ForumPO Box 154CheltenhamGL52 5YLUK
Tel: 01242 236973
You are invited to join the CRF - click here for further details
© CRF 2011 | Disclaimer | Contact CRF | Contact webmaster |
