SSE plc - The UK's broadest-based energy company
Home
ABOUT US
+
WHAT WE DO
+
BEING RESPONSIBLE
+
INVESTORS
+
CAREERS
+
NEWS & VIEWS
Cookie Policy
Close
We use cookies to give you the best possible online experience. If you continue, we'll assume you are happy for your web browser to receive all cookies from our website. See our cookie policy for more information on cookies and how to manage them.
SSE
ABOUT US
Find out more about SSE
At SSE, our job is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way. We're involved in producing, distributing and supplying electricity and gas and we provide other energy-related services as well. SSE is the only company listed on the London Stock Exchange involved in such a wide range of energy businesses.
More from our Chief Executive, Alistair Phillips-Davies.
At a glance
CEO Introduction
Values
Strategy
Where we came from
Sponsorship
Our team
Corporate governance
The SSE documentary
WHAT WE DO
Keeping the lights on
SSE is involved in the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, in the production, storage, distribution and supply of gas and in other energy services.
At a glance
Our sector
Our projects and assets
Networks
Retail
Wholesale
SSE Enterprise
Innovation and development
Ventures
BEING RESPONSIBLE
Making a positive difference to people's lives
Decent companies make sure they abide by the law and do no harm to the communities they serve. Responsible companies go further than that. Not having a negative impact is not enough for the 21st century: customers and communities are rightly demanding more. This is especially true for an energy company.
Find out more about how we do that here.
At a glance
Our Responsible Approach
Responsible Service Provider
Responsible Operator
Responsible Developer
Responsible Employer
Responsible Society Member
Responsible Buyer
Reporting and Policy
INVESTORS
Our strategy
SSE's strategy is to deliver the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of economically-regulated and market-based businesses in energy production, storage, transmission, distribution, supply and related services in the energy markets in Great Britain and Ireland.
At a glance
Shareholder services
Institutional investors and analysts
Dividends and our Scrip scheme
Reports and results
Financial Calendar
Regulatory news
ADRs
eComms programme
Credit rating
Share Repurchase Programme
CAREERS
Why you should join SSE
Our staff tell us there are lots of good reasons to work at SSE. It’s not possible to include them all, but we’ve highlighted a few of the key ones in this section. As part of our Happier goal and our commitment to being a Great Place to Work, we’ve spent some time over the last few years improving our employee benefits.
Search through all of our current vacancies
At a glance
Why join SSE?
Engineering and operations
Customer service
Apprentices
Trainee Engineers
Graduate Development Programme
Smart Metering
NEWS & VIEWS
LinkedIn
Twitter
Vimeo
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon opens SSE’s new £4m visitor centre
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and the Scottish Cabinet officially opened SSE’s new £4m Pitlochry Dam Visitor Centre in Perthshire on Monday 6 February.
Read more...
SSE Q3 Trading Statement
SSE plc completed the third quarter of its financial year on 31 December 2016.
Read more...
BLOG: An industrial strategy can succeed if it provides stability and brings benefits to the whole of the UK
One of Theresa May’s first actions as Prime Minister was creating a new department and tasking it with devising an industrial strategy for modern Britain...
Read the blog
POWERING COMMUNITIES, WHATEVER THE WEATHER
Winter weather can sometimes bring disruption to power supplies. Our Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks business will keep you up-to-date on how it’s working to keep the lights on.
Find out more...
I am looking for
type here
Go
GO
Explore SSE
Our latest
News and Views
Latest news
Find out everything that has been happening at SSE by visiting the "News and Views" section of our website.
Keeping the lights on
Creating strong connections with our customers
Company news
Earn, learn and experience - SSE's 2017 apprenticeships are open
Energy efficiency, Energy policy
BLOG: Extended Eco must be cost-effective
Power stations
Ferrybridge Multifuel processes first million tonnes of fuel
All of our latest news
Understanding our business
Investors
Today's share price
1,524.00 pence
Half-year Results - 2016/17
Our Half-year Results presentation took place on Wednesday 9th November. You can find out more using the link below.
Half-year Results 2016/17 - find out more
Visit our Investors page
Being
Responsible
Being responsible in all that we do
Decent companies make sure they abide by the law and do no harm to the communites they serve or the environment they operate in.
Responsible companies should go further than that. Find out why SSE is a responsible company focused on doing the right thing.
SSE's modern slavery statement
Find out more
Time for a new
Career
Why SSE?
There are lots of good reasons to work at SSE. Our people are our most valuable asset and we're passionate about helping them to fulfil their potential.From working on wind farms to helping our customers, we offer a broad range of opportunities across the UK and Ireland.
Follow us on Twitter
For all of the latest opportunities to join SSE
SSEjobs on Twitter
Visit our careers page
More about
Energy
Our assets and projects
SSE operates over 13,000MW of electricity generation capacity in Great Britain and Ireland including 3,200MW of renewable generation.This makes SSE the biggest renewable generator in Great Britain and Ireland.
Interactive map
SSE Copyright SSE © 2017
Contact Us
Media
Potential suppliers
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
SiteMap
