Torrs Hydro
Power output right now is: 0.0 kW.
Total generated to date is: 1 065 163 kWh.
Data courtesy of Mann Power Consulting
Torrs Hydro
The Project
Torrs Hydro:
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Visit Us
Archie
Media
Newsletters
Share Issue
AGM 2017
A date for your diary - this year's AGM is Saturday 22nd April. 10:30 for a 11:00 start at the Revival Church, High Street, New Mills.
Volunteers
Torrs Hydro is run entirely by volunteers. Amongst them are engineers, health
and safety specialists, teachers, community workers, computer whizz kids
etc, etc, basically just ordinary folk with a passion for green technology. Do
you have time to spare to help Archie?
The daily checks on the site
Work parties to unblock and clean up Archie
Show organised groups around the site (mostly Monday to Friday)
The administration of our Community Benefit Society (the company structure we use)
If you are interested please contact the Secretary - secretary@torrshydro.org
Archie Back in Action!
Archie’s bottom bearing has now been replaced and he is back in action generating clean, green electricity. Volunteers have been busy in recent weeks ensuring that the mechanical repair was able to take place. There has been much manual spadework, clearing accumulated debris; brain work and decision making on strategy; negotiating with contractors and hours spent in waders in cold dirty water!
Directors and Shareholders owe the volunteers a great debt of thanks.
There are still some jobs to be done on site to finish, but for now at least, we are able to take advantage of the wet summer to keep Archie turning!
Archie makes a good read!
Fans of Stephen Booth’s series of books based in the Derbyshire area, may
have already read The Murder Road. It is set around New Mills and features
some local landmarks, one of which is our very own Archie. If you like the
crime genre, then it’s definitely worth reading, but be aware that it is entirely
fictional!
Archie's Tile
Archie
now has a 'virtual tile' on the New Mills School's fundraising roof. Tiles cost £5 each and anyone can buy them!
Community PowerTorrs Hydro is an example of the power of communities to take action and begin to address the challenges that climate change presents to us all.   We are a community owned and community funded organisation.  For more on our community involvement click here...
Green PowerOur reverse Archimedes screw turbine (known as Archie) is designed to produce around 240 000 kWh of electricity over a typical year.
This is the equivalent of the annual electricity consumption of around 50 typical British homes and saves over 150 tonnes of CO2 emissions compared to conventional electricity generation. And it is all fish-friendly!Watch this video about fish moving through an Archimedes screw.  For more on our technology click here...
Torrs Hydro New Mills LimitedTorrs Hydro New Mills Limited was incorporated in 2007 as an Industrial and Provident Society which operates for the benefit of the community. For more on the company click here...
HE DID IT!
Archie passed the 1,000,000 kWh mark for total electricity generated at 6:07am on Wednesday April 8th! Torrs Hydro volunteers gathered to watch that magic row of zeroes come up and celebrate briefly before heading off to work.
New Share Issue
A new share issue was approved at the AGM to raise funds to retire our loan and place the project on a sound financial footing. More details.
Inspiring Artists
Local band Blues Party have been inspired to write the song "Archie Spins Again" by the very special atmosphere of the Torrs Gorge. This recording is © and ℗ monkeyass music 2009. All rights reserved.
Archie has been part of the inspiration for New Mills group Write Van Men to release an album called Goodbye Watford Bridge Road - further details - or listen to 'Archie' on YouTube.
Blogtastic!If blogs are your thing, we have a blog.
Click here for the latest thoughts...
Torrs Hydro is proud to be supported by:
Site and Content Copyright © Peak Digital Limited 2009All Rights Reserved
Site Design by
Peak Digital
Home
Contact Us
Visit Us
