British Chambers of Commerce - Business
Home
>
Business services
Business
Business FAQs
Member services
Trading InternationallyExport Britain
Export publications
International Advisory Council
EventsBCC Annual Conference 2017
Chamber Business Awards
Young Chamber membership
Business Services
The British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) is the national voice of local business. It sits at the heart of a nationwide network of 52 local Accredited Chambers of Commerce, serving tens of thousands of business members across the UK. The BCC is a strong campaigning voice for the interests of business, delivers services that help business grow, and is the premier private sector source of advice and support for international trade.
Trading internationally
The network of chambers of commerce worldwide is synonymous with trade. In the UK, the British Chambers of Commerce network of accredited chambers supports and advises businesses in all areas of international trade and exporting. We also offer links to British bi-lateral and international chambers of commerce, providing UK exporters with connections in new markets. For more information see here
Top 10 business questions
Where can I go to get a list of companies in the UK?
I want to start a new business. Where can I go for help?
Where can I get advice on tax issues / business rates?
Where can I get advice on training and apprenticeships?
How can I find out more about Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs)?
I want to find out more about the National Loan Guarantee Scheme
I'm a business owner and have a complaint about a finance issue.
Where can I find advice on HR issues?
How can I engage with chamber members?
Who can help me with information on import and export duties?
Latest press releases
BCC: UK labour market in good health
Commenting on the labour market statistics for February 2017, released today by the Office for National Statistics, Suren Thiru, Head of Economics at the British Chambers of Commer...
BCC: Inflationary pressures intensifying for businesses
Commenting on the inflation statistics for January 2017, published today by the Office for National Statistics, Suren Thiru, Head of Economics at the British Chambers of Commerce, said:...
BCC: UK exporters put in strong performance in final quarter of 2016
Commenting on the UK trade statistics for December 2016, released today by the Office for National Statistics, Mike Spicer, Director of Economics at the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC), said:...
More news
View all
BCC: Dash for housing must not sacrifice business land
BCC Budget Submission: Action needed on business rates burden sapping businesses
BCC International Trade Survey: Fall in Sterling expected to increase cost base and push up prices
BCC comments on Bank of England inflation report
BCC International Trade Survey: Europe to remain key export market despite Brexit vote
BCC: GDP growth shows strong end to 2016 for the UK economy
BCC comments on public sector finances for December 2016
BCC comments on Supreme Court judgement
Become a member.Find your local chamber
Aberdeen & Grampian
Ayrshire
Barnsley & Rotherham
Bedfordshire & Luton
Black Country
Business West
Cambridgeshire
Cornwall
Coventry & Warwickshire
Cumbria
Devon
Doncaster
Dorset
East Lancashire
East Midlands Chamber (Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire)
Edinburgh
Essex
Fife
Glasgow
Greater Birmingham
Greater Manchester
Hampshire
Herefordshire & Worcestershire
Hertfordshire
Hull and Humber
Inverness
Isle of Wight
Kent Invicta
Lincolnshire
Liverpool & Sefton
London
Mid Yorkshire
Norfolk
North and West Lancashire
North East
Northamptonshire
Northern Ireland
Renfrewshire
Scottish
Sheffield
Shropshire
Somerset
South Cheshire
South Wales
St Helens Chamber
Staffordshire
Suffolk
Surrey
Sussex
Thames Valley
West & North Yorkshire
West Cheshire & N Wales
Wirral
Are you ready
for PAYE RTI?
Learn more
Business services
Policy & news
Trading Internationally
Events
Partner with us
Home
About the BCC
Contact us
Languages
العربية
汉语/漢語
Français
Deutsch
日本語
Español
Press Office
BCC Twitter
RT @BCCAdam: This is what today's Chambers of Commerce are about: modern, vibrant biz communities that come together for growth @AGCCevents…
27 minutes ago - reply
Stay in touch with BCC
YouTube
BCC Blogs
LinkedIn
Twitter
Google +
RSS
Keep up to date
Leave your email address and keep you up to date with the latest BCC news, events and offers
Vacancies
T&Cs and Privacy Policy
How we use cookies
Sitemap
Cookie Compliance Law
