Menu
About Us
Lewisham Plus Credit Union
Join LPCU
Credit Union News
Leaflets & Downloads
Newsletters & Reports
Volunteering
Meet Your Staff
Our Partners
Recruitment
Member Comments
Is Your Money Safe ?
Terms & Conditions
Savings
Saving
Credit Union Share Account
Young Savers Account
Smartcash
Accounts For Societies & Charities
Deposits & Withdrawals
Dividend Rates
Is My Money Safe
Make A Deposit
Loans
Loans
Save As Your Borrow Loan
Personal Loan
Flexi Loan
Lending Criteria & Affordability
Loan Calculator
Apply Online
Free Life Insurance
Make A Payment
Difficulty Repaying Your Loan
Lending FAQs
Banking
Banking
Engage Current Account
Engage Current Account Envelopes
Engage Pre-Paid Classic Card
Credit Union Current Account
Lost Or Stolen Cards
Cost Of Banking
Banking FAQs
Managing Your Money
Managing Your Money
Financial Health Check
Universal Credit
In Debt Need Help ?
Free Life Insurance
Contact
Contact Information
Contact Form
Members Area
Welcome
Log in or register for online banking and access your account online 24/7
Log in or     Register
Providing first class financial services
Run by members for members
Ethical Savings and Loans
Welcome to Our Web Site
We hope you like our web site which has a fresh look and much more for members online. The site is mobile-friendly for smart-phones and tablets, is easy to use and provides easy to read information all our products and services. There is also a Member's secure area where you can register to see account balances and transactions.
Features online include:
Apply to join the credit union
Improved online loan form
Request money transfers
Make a payment online using your Visa debit card
Latest News
Please join us for our 25th Anniversary AGM Friday 3rd March 2017 at 7pm at the Grove Centre, 2 Jews Walk, Sydenham, SE26 6PL.
Please note Sydenham Branch will be closed that evening.
Engage Current Accounts
Lewisham Plus Credit Union has partnered with Contis Financial Services Ltd for the provision Engage Current Accounts and Smartcash which is an exciting new account for 8-16 year old's:
Smartcash
How can we help you?
Why wait to join us ?
Join Online today and become a member of Lewisham + Bromley Credit Union
A Loan thats Right 4U
Try our easy to use loan calculator and find the best loan deal for you.
Engage Current Account
A new low cost card based current account with many additional benefits
Smartcash
Smartcash is an exciting new Engage card just for young savers aged 8-16. First 500 accounts free of the usual £10 fee.
Lewisham + Bromley Credit Union Director's Area
Lewisham Plus Credit Union Limited is a member of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), complies with the Data Protection Act 1998 and is Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. Firm reference number 213588. Credit Union Registration Number 295C (IP00295C at Companies House).
Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
