Lion Coins Home Page
powered by
FreeFind
Keyword search
of
LionCoins.com
- Great Britain - France - World Coins
- Banknotes of the World
- Banking
History - Numismatics - English Civil War
& History - Railways - Auction catalogs
& Periodicals
- A range of cigarette & trade cards
at 30% discount
-
Site Information
- Links to other sites - How to do - Where to find
- All prices are in U.K. POUNDS - Use the currency converter
Click any title on the buttons above, or the Navigation Bar below to continue
GENERAL INFORMATION
All items have an individual reference number. If the item description is underlined then this is a 'hyperlink' to an image of that item. Simply click on the underlined section. Use the 'BACK' button on your browser to return to the page you were viewing. An image is available by request for any other item by return email.
To
ORDER any item, simply click on the word 'ORDER' anywhere on the site, or on the navigation bars, and
this will show you what details are required to place an order.
For explanation of abbreviations used on this web-site click here.
If you have any specific requirements, you can be added to the "Wanted" list. Please send an email stating which items or subject you are searching for and your request will be added to our computerised list of items required by clients. You will receive an 'advice of find' email when anything of interest is available. You are under no obligation whatsoever to purchase any items offered. It is our guarantee that any details which you supply to us will remain strictly confidential. We will not give out any details of any nature to any other person, or company whatsoever.
All coins, medallions, tokens, banknotes and cigarette cards are graded according to accepted standards. See Grading Terms.  All prices are shown in U.K. Pounds.
Please send us any queries, comments (good, or bad), or information by email to VIC@LIONCOINS.COM.
If you wish to place an order click the 'Order' button on the Navigation Bar, or click this link Lion Coins.
For Terms of Sale, see
INFORMATION page before ordering.
This web-site has been accepted by the British Library for permanent archiving - www.webarchive.org.uk
Webmaster: Vic Gardner
For collectors and researchers, We sell Medallions and Coins of France, U.K. and the world, together with world banknotes and cheques, "Cigarette Cards", Tokens and many numismatic books for sale. Section on Japanese coin identification. "Banking History" "Bank History", All the following items in stock:-Coins, English, England, U.K., France, Euro, Euros, Foreign, ausstellung, "English Cheques", "British cheques", "Foreign cheques", Bank Checks, "Bank cheques", "Bill of exchange", "bills of exchange", Cheque, cheques, check, "Cheque collecting", "cheques for sale", checks, Banknote, currency, test123, banknotes, British, Chaplain, "cigarette cards", "coin books", Coin, collector, commemorative, Crown, Crystal Palace, currency, Dupuis, Worlds Show, English Civil War, esposicion, exhibition, exonumia, exposition, Foreign coins, Foreign, Franc, French, Great Britain, history, historical medals, historical, Lusitania, Mariage, Marriage, medaille, medaillen, medallion, medallions, medals, Monaco, monnaies etranger, monnaies francaises, numismatic, penny, Railway, Roty, shilling, tentoonstelling, Wedding, bill of exchange, canal bill of exchange,
