IED | Home Page
Member login
linkedin
twitter
facebook
Home
The Institution of Engineering Designers
Membership
Gain professional registration
News
Stay up-to-date with industry advances
Events
Upcoming seminars, conferences & more
Careers
Accredited courses & training opportunities
Shop
Buy merchandise & apparel
Contact Us
Learn more about the IED & our values
New Years Honour for IED President
Huge congratulations to IED President Maggie Philbin on being awarded an OBE in the New Years Honours list for services to engineering education.
Read More
Design thinking – everybody is doing it!
From primary ovarian insufficiency to improving psychological interventions, design thinking is making its mark. IED Chair Tania Humphries-Smith takes up the story
Read More
The professional and CPD....
CPD is understood across most professions as the systematic acquisition of knowledge and skills, and the development of personal qualities to maintain and enhance professional competencies.
Read More
Creativity in action
The Engineering and Product Design Education (E&PDE) Conference has just celebrated its 18th birthday! Held in Denmark this year, it was a great success, as Christian Tollestrup, head of the ...
Read More
Previous
Next
Welcome to the IED website
Welcome to the IED, the home for designers working in engineering and product design
Why Become a Member?
Member Benefits
Membership of the IED is open to all who work in, study, manage, research, teach or practice design.
Membership is welcomed at all grades of academic study and levels of expertise.
The purpose of the IED is to support our members to achieve their career goals by mentoring and guiding designers to the appropriate grade of professional registration.The first step to achieving this professional registration is to complete our simple application form.
Find Out More
View From The Chair
View All
Design thinking – everybody is doing it!
From primary ovarian insufficiency to improving psychological interventions, design thinking is making its mark. IED Chair Tania Humphries-Smith takes up the story
Read More
The Design News
View All
New Years Honour for IED President
Huge congratulations to IED President Maggie Philbin on being awarded an OBE in the New Years Honours list for services to engineering education.
Read More
Nominations are invited for the IOMMM’s Awards for 2017 - deadline 13 January.
The awards cover personal achievement and published work in a range of materials sectors and applications. Some awards are designed to recognise the achievement of younger people at the start of their career.
Read More
The professional and CPD....
CPD is understood across most professions as the systematic acquisition of knowledge and skills, and the development of personal qualities to maintain and enhance professional competencies.
Read More
Twitter
Tweets by @InstEngDes
Upcoming Events
View All
31 Jan
British Engineering Excellence Awards 2017 now Open for Entries
The British Engineering Excellence Awards (BEEAs) for 2017 are now open for entries
Read More
7 Mar
The Wearable Technology Show 2017
Call for papers now open!
Read More
Self Employed Directory
View All
Mr J Virdie CEng MIED Crewe, Cheshire
Mr A MacLachlan BSc(Hons) MIED Ipswich, Suffolk
Dr D Thomas BEng(Hons) MSc EngD CSci CEng MIED FBCS Bridgend
Mr N Shaw IEng MIED GCGI Bolton
Partners
View All
Ask the CEO
Submit Question
If you've got any questions about the IED or our membership process then we'd be more than happy to hear from you. Simply click on the 'submit question' button, fill in the contact form and we'll get back to you with a response as soon as possible.
Founded in 1945, Chartered in 2012, the IED is the premier membership body representing engineering and product designers. We aim to support and inspire our members to achieve their career goals and professional aspirations.
Services
Reference Library
Self-employed Directory
IED Journal
Accredited Courses
Useful Links
Engineering Council
Society for the Environment
EngineeringUK
Tomorrow’s Engineers
© Copyright IED |
FAQs |
Useful Information |
Contact Us |
Partners |
Privacy Policy |
Terms and Conditions |
Cookie Policy
