Peak District Mines Historical Society - official website
Peak District Mines Historical Society
Peak District Mines Historical Society
Promoting and preserving mining heritage
(Registered charity No. 504662)
Home
Home
About PDMHS
Member benefits
Joining PDMHS
Contact us
Projects
Crich Lead Mining Display
High Rake Mine, Windmill
High Rake
A Brief History of High Rake Mine - Jim Rieuwerts
Excavation Photos from High Rake Mine
Silence Mine - Great Hucklow
Silence Mine
Silence Mine Field Notes by Nellie Kirkham
Silence Mine - An Article
1878 Newspaper Cutting
Current and ongoing projects
Lodge Moor Bole Smelting Site
The Project at Lodge Moor
John Barnatt's Original Report on the Lodge Moor Site
David Kiernan's Views on the Lodge Moor Bole Site
Geophysics, Soil Sampling and Surveying
Magpie Mine, the Society's Field Centre
Magpie Mine, Its History and What to See
Visiting Magpie Mine
Magpie Mine Management Plan
Magpie Mine Photographic Album
Publications
Latest Bulletin (Mining History)
Index to Mining History
Index - Mining History Volume 1
Index - Mining History Volume 2
Index - Mining History Volume 3
Index - Mining History Volume 4
Index - Mining History Volume 5
Index - Mining History Volume 6
Index - Mining History Volume 7
Index - Mining History Volume 8
Index - Mining History Volume 9
Index - Mining History Volume 10
Index - Mining History Volume 11
Index - Mining History Volume 12
Index - Mining History Volume 13
Index - Mining History Volume 14
Index - Mining History Volume 15
Index - Mining History Volume 16
Index - Mining History Volume 17
Index - Mining History Volume 18
Index - Mining History Volume 19
Resources
Peak District Miners - Census Returns
Peak District Mining Laws and Customs
Newspaper Cuttings of Mining Interest
Mine Plans and Surveys
Nellie Kirkham's Field Notes
Lead Miners Heyday - Ron Slack
List of Britain's Mines in 1896
Derbyshire's Mining Industry in 1896 - A List of Coal Mines
Derbyshire's Mining Industry in 1896 - A List of Metalliferous Mines
Wales' Mining Industry in 1896
Scotland's Mining Industry in 1896
Ireland's Mining Industry in 1896
The South of England's Mining Industry in 1896
The Midlands of England's Mining Industry in 1896
The North of England's Mining Industry in 1896
Post Office Directory 1849
Contents of the Society Library
Contents of the Society Library
Books and Reports by Author Order
Catalogue of CD Collection
Catalogue of the Newsletters and Journals in the Library
PDMHS Newsletters, Bulletin and 'Mining History'
NCMRS - NMRS 'British Mining' Etc.
Journals and Newsletters of the Historical Metallurgy Society
Industrial Archaeology Review etc.
Other Journals and Newsletters
Foreign Language Journals and Newsletters
The Mercian Geologist
Reports of H.M. Inspectors of Mines
Archive Boxes in the Library
Archive Box - Derbyshire 01
Archive Box - Derbyshire 02
Archive Box - Derbyshire 03
Archive Box - Derbyshire 04
Archive Box - Derbyshire 05
Archive Box - Derbyshire Barmaster Papers
Archive Box - Derbyshire D83
Ring Binder - Offprints Vol. 1
Ring Binder - Offprints Vol. 2
Ring Binder - Offprints Vol. 3
Ring Binder - Millclose Mine Papers
Ring Binder - Articles of Interest
Ring Binder - Papers by Trevor Ford
Ring Binder - Wensley Liberty Gifts
Archive Box - South West England
Archive Box - Wales
Archive Box - Lake District
Archive Box - Miscellaneous
Archive Box - North Pennines
Archive Box - South East England
Archive Box - The World
Archive Box - Early Mining
Archive Box - Forest of Dean and Bristol
Archive Box - Lead Smelting and Refining
Archive Box - Coal and Iron
Members Area
Members Home
Login / Register
News and Events
PDMHS News
Events diary
Mining Museum
Welcome to the Peak District Mines Historical Society
Welcome to the new PDMHS website.  We're currently migrating content from the old site to here - a process that will take a little time as there is a substantial body of material that we need to migrate in a controlled and organised fashion.  If you can't find what you are looking for here, the old site can still be accessed at: http://archive.pdmhs.com
The Peak District National Park and much of the surrounding countryside was once mined extensively for Lead, Fluorspar, Barytes, Copper, Calcite and other minerals. Much of the now-familiar and naturalised landscape has been modified considerably by ancient miners, with hillocks, old lead veins, engine houses and mine buildings forming an integral part of the modern-day landscape. Across the area are many archaeological features relating to mining activities – some dating back several hundred years, some considerably more recent.
The Peak District Mines Historical Society exists to preserve these important industrial heritage sites, and to promote interest and understanding in mines, mining and minerals – and in the fascinating and varied mining history.
Through this website, we hope to present to a wider audience the aims, objectives, activities and resources of the society.
Interested in joining the Peak District Mines Historical Society?
Then go to the"joining PDMHS" page of this website to find out more - or you can simply download a PDMHS Membership form if you prefer.
Want to come along to one of our meets?
Take a look at the latest meets and events list, now on-line with plenty of events taking place both above and below ground.
Latest News:
Magpie Mine Heritage Open Day
Aug 28, 2016
The Society is pleased to announce that one of the Heritage Open Day events in the Derbyshire Peak District will be held at the Magpie lead mine, near Sheldon, on 11th September 2016.
This free event will take place between 11.00am and 5.00pm. No booking required - just turn up on the day.
Full story
Magpie Mine Square Chimney Repairs Completed
Aug 28, 2016
The repairs to the Square Chimney, the associated ground level flue and the small building at the base of the chimney at Magpie Mine have now been completed. The object has been to preserve the appearance of the chimney whilst making sure that it will remain standing for many years to come.
Full story
Magpie Lead Mine Repairs Begin
Jul 12, 2016
Work has started to repair some of the oldest buildings at the Magpie Mine near Sheldon. The site (which is managed by the Peak District Mines Historical Society) is a Scheduled Monument, and probably the best preserved example of a C19th lead mine in Britain. The buildings at Magpie Mine, which are constructed from the local limestone, suffer from the severe weather conditions experienced on the exposed limestone plateau, and a 2013 survey (funded by Natural England) identified some £250,000 of repair work needed to maintain them in a safe and viable condition for the future.
Full story
Wyatt account book purchased by PDMHS
May 20, 2016
PDMHS have just purchased an account book covering the years 1783 to 1802 belonging to William Wyatt, the grandfather of the similarly named 19th century mining agent, from an antiquarian bookseller in York
Full story
International Early Engines Conference 2017 – Preliminary Announcement
Mar 29, 2016
The inaugural International Early Engines Conference (IEEC hereafter) will be held at The Ironworks, Elsecar, South Yorkshire in May 11-13, 2017. The purpose of the conference is to provide a forum for presentation and discussion of new research into heat engines prior to 1812.
Full story
Upcoming events:
Underground Trip - Masson Cavern, Matlock
Dates: 22 – 22 Feb, 2017
Mining and Archaeology Walk - the Bradwell Area
Dates: 26 – 26 Feb, 2017
Mining Walk - Whale Sough and Hubberdale Mine.
Dates: 04 – 04 Mar, 2017
Underground Trip - Wapping Mine, Matlock Bath
Dates: 07 – 07 Mar, 2017
North Wales Mines Weekend
Dates: 10 – 12 Mar, 2017
12
Website design and implementation by WyeTec   :   Sponsored by www.LEDCavingLamp.co.uk
