Quarry Voices - Quarry Voices
Quarry Voices
Home
Quarry communities
Working lives
Health and environment
Events and news
Partners and links
Downloads and images
Quarry Voices
Quarrying was a major part of Devon and Cornwall's industrial history in the 20th century and has left a lasting legacy on the culture and landscape of the two counties.
This website is part of the Peninsula Quarry Industry Oral History Project, which has been exploring the history of the granite and limestone quarries of Cornwall and Devon. The project aims to add a new ‘human dimension’ to this history by recording the memories of the people who worked within, and lived alongside, the region’s quarries.
Social and economic changes
The archive of oral history recordings chart the social and economic changes that impacted upon the quarrying industry over the course of the last century.
Cornwall and Devon have a diverse geological profile, and the granite and limestone belts that stretch across the region’s moors and coastline have been a valuable resource over the centuries.
Quarrying of surface stones for local use had taken place since prehistoric times, but it was during the nineteenth century that an ‘export’ industry took off. Spurred on by the expansion of Britain’s industrialisation, a number of major public works increased the demand for durable and decorative building materials.
Famous landmarks
Granite and limestone from Cornwall and Devon not only went into the construction of a number of civic buildings in the cities and towns of the two counties, but also grace some of the most famous landmarks in London and other locations across the nation.
Most notably, Cornish and Devonian granite were used in many of the capital’s famous bridges, including Waterloo, Blackfriars and London Bridge (now in Arizona, USA), as well as The Embankment and the base of Nelson’s Column.
Working to survive
As the twentieth century progressed, the region’s quarrying industry came under increasing pressure for survival, one of the greatest blows being the impact of cheaper imported building stone. Nonetheless, quarrying continued to be an important part of the economic and social lives of many local communities until at least the 1970s.
The memories collated for this project vividly depict the skill, resilience and camaraderie of the people who worked within the peninsula’s quarries.
Our interviewees have also lived through some of the major events in twentieth century British history, including the outbreak of the First and Second World Wars, the beginnings of state funded education, the formation of the NHS, and technical advances in the home and workplace.
Explore the pages of this website to discover more about the human history behind Cornwall and Devon’s 20th century quarrying communities.
Partnership
This is a partnership project supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund, the Peninsula Quarry Industry Social History Trust, Cornwall Council, Plymouth City Council, Plymouth University and Geevor Tin Mine Museum. In addition, a team of volunteers are at the hub of the project, and have helped to record and transcribe over 50 oral histories.
This wonderful collection of recordings has created a unique archive for current and future generations that will be accessible at the Plymouth and West Devon Record Office from late 2012.
Exhibition
Material from the oral history recordings has also been transformed into an exhibition that will tour Cornwall and Devon during 2012.
See our events and news page for tour dates and locations.
More information
For more information about the project please contact:
Kayleigh Milden (Project Officer)Peninsula Quarry Industry Oral History ProjectPlymouth Museum and Art GalleryDrake CircusPlymouthPL4 8AJ
Tel: 01752 306396
Email: kayleigh.milden@plymouth.gov.uk
Workers at Kit Hill Quarry, Cornwall. From front to rear: Ernest Brent; Lesley Pote, Jack Evans. Late 1930s (Courtesy of Fred Pote)
Workers at Westleigh Quarry, Devon, 1930s (Courtesy of Neil Bent)
Walter Burch working with Cornish granite forming of the Diana Statue erected in Green Park London, C1952 (Courtesy of Joy Armstrong)
Digger truck at Moorcroft Quarry, Devon, 1950s (courtesy of Graham Hicks)
© Plymouth City Council
© Plymouth City Museum and Art Gallery
© Plymouth and West Devon Record Office
