Home | SGMRG - South Gloucestershire Mines Research Group
South Gloucestershire MinesResearch Group
Home
Contents:
Home
About Us
Local Mining
Events List
- Maps
News
Shop & Publications
Links
Contact Us
Join Us
Site Accessibility
Sitemap
Shirts
We now have a range of Sweatshirts, T-Shirts and Polo Shirts available for sale in our shop.
Books and Publications
We have recently added three more books. Check out our sales page for more details.
Public Open Days
SGMRG Public Open Days at Oldwood Pit, attracting around 500 visitors. Our next open day will be in September 2017 (entry is FREE). You can also come along to any of our other events for £2*.
Enter your search terms
Web
SGMRG
Submit search form
SGMRG is a member of the:
National Association of Mining History Organisations (NAMHO)
British Association for Local History (BALH)
Avon Industrial Heritage Partnership (AIHP) and
Avon Local History and Archaeology (ALHA)
NAMHOBALH
Welcome to SGMRG...
South Gloucestershire has a rich and varied mining history, the date of the earliest mining in the area is now lost in antiquity but coal was worked in this area up until 1963, other forms of open cast mining continued later still.
The mining remains cover a vast area from South Bristol, Easton, Kingswood to Coalpit Heath, Yate and Cromhall - and even Filton.
Most of the mining was for coal, but ochre, celestine, iron, lead and stone were also mined in the area.
South Gloucestershire Mines Research Group (SGMRG) was set up by local people to understand, record and where appropriate preserve the remains, of what was once an extensive industry, for the present community and future generations. SGMRG is a voluntary organisation that relies on grants and donations from local people.
Our membership is made up of archaeologists, surveyors, historians, engineers, cavers and those simply interested in finding more about what lies under their feet.
We have regular meetings, walks and talks including the opportunity to get involved in exploration, archaeology and resotoration work. If you would like to join SGMRG, please visit our Membership Page.
We are always interested to hear about new finds, old buildings or artefacts from the mining era.
Do you have relatives who were involved in mining?
If you have any information to share with us, please let us know.
If you wish to enquire about new or existing projects, please contact our Projects Manager.
If you'd like to get in contact with us for any other reason, please see the details on our contacts page.
Find out more about our other Public events and our Members-Only events
Next Public Event - Wed 1st March 2017SGMRG AGM (20:00) and talk (21:00): Now we Know their Names: Remembering the Heroes of the Kingswood Coalmines - D.P.LindegaardContact Roger for more details.
March Talk Flyer
Below is a Google Calendar with all our events in it.
Click on the event to see more detail.
You can then add these to your Google Calendar too.
The SGMRG have made efforts to trace the ownership and gain approval of those with rights to images or documents on this site.
If you are the holder, for instance, of copyright on an item and we have been unable to trace you, please contact the
Chairman, so that you may be acknowledged and/or remedial action taken.
Home  |
About Us  |
Mining  |
Events List  |
News  |
Links  |
Sitemap  |
Contacts  |
Join Us
We hope you find this site interesting. All comments regarding the site content/colours/layout/errors/bugs etc are welcome.
Please leave feedback for the webmaster.
Back to TopLast updated: Feb 2017
Website and Content © 2006-2017
South Gloucestershire Mines Research Group.
All Rights Reserved.
Written permission is required to duplicate any of the content on this site.
