Waggonways
Search this site
Waggonways in North East EnglandSitemap
Waggonways in North East England
Waggonways in North East England
Maps of Northumberland, County Durham and Cleveland, UK,
showing each waggonway (or wagonway), tramway, mineral railway, railroad, colliery,
coal pit, lead mine, fluorspar mine, ironstone mine and quarry.
Please observe the COPYRIGHT of this website.
Printing and copying should be for personal use only and NOT for commercial purposes.
Choose a region:-
Northumberland   County Durham   Cleveland
Copyright acknowledgement -
Image produced from the Ordnance Survey Get-a-map service.
Image reproduced with kind permission of Ordnance Survey and Ordnance Survey of Northern Ireland.
Gazetteer placenames are now on each map page. Use "Search this site" to find placenames.
History of Railways in County Durham
History of Railways in Northumberland
Links Page
Railway Links - Mining Links - Bibliography
Teesside Trolleybus
route map of the system from North Ormesby to Eston.
Online Map Sources
historic maps, modern street maps, GIS maps, satellite images, aerial photographs.
Pictures in Print
Durham University Library collection of County Durham maps published prior to Ordnance Survey.
Category D
The 1951 plan to demolish coal mining villages in County Durham.
NEW Railway map of North Yorkshire is now on KeymapsGB Keymaps of Great Britain, 22 February 2011
This website is non-commercial. No liability can be accepted for any inaccuracies.
Acknowledgements
Maps by the late Ken Hoole, railway historian and author.
North Eastern Railway Historical Maps by RA Cook and K Hoole.
Published by the Railway and Canal Historical Society 1975, ISBN 090146113X
Maps of wooden waggonways from the 2 volumes of
A Fighting Trade: rail transport in Tyne coal, 1600-1800
by G Bennett, E Clavering and A Rounding.
Published by Portcullis (Gateshead Council) 1990, ISBN 0901273147
Acknowledgement is made to the Public Libraries of:-
Durham County Council
Hartlepool Borough Council
Middlesbrough Borough Council
Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council,
for the free use of the People's Network computers.
www.peoplesnetwork.gov.uk
this page started 25 May 2009
Update 22 February 2015 - Google Sites does not show a horizontal scroll bar, cutting off wide maps.
This affects all browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Opera and Google Chrome.
Sign in|Report Abuse|Print Page|Powered By Google Sites
