World Nuclear Association - World Nuclear Association
Javascript Required!Javascript is required for this site.
Go
MENU
Nuclear Basics
Information Library
Facts and Figures
Country Profiles
Countries A-F
Countries G-N
Countries O-S
Countries T-Z
Others
Nuclear Fuel Cycle
Introduction
Uranium Resources
Mining of Uranium
Conversion Enrichment and Fabrication
Nuclear Power Reactors
Fuel Recycling
Nuclear Wastes
Transport
Safety and Security
Safety of Plants
Radiation and Health
Non-Proliferation
Non-power Nuclear Applications
Industry
Transport
Current and Future Generation
Energy and the Environment
Economic Aspects
Our Association
Who We Are
What We Do
Membership
Publications
Press
Press Statements
Briefings
Events
Gallery
Shop
Member Login
Information Library A-Z
Home /
Nuclear Basics
|
Information Library
|
Our Association
|
Press
|
Events
Members Login
World Nuclear Association Symposium 2017
13-15 September
Park Plaza Westminster Bridge Hotel, London
Registration now open, early bird rates available.
Nuclear Economics and Project Structuring
Download the new report.
Nuclear Energy Powers Your Lifestyle
See our latest nuclear footprints video
Nuclear Performance Report 2016
Our new report provides an up-to-date picture of the nuclear energy sector today.
Information and Facts
In depth nuclear knowledge in our Infomation Library.
Nuclear Footprints
See how nuclear energy’s tiny footprint leaves more space for nature
Reactor Database
Search our database for performance details on the world's nuclear reactors.
World Nuclear Performance Report 2016 Asia Edition
Download our new report highlighting reactor construction and operations in Asia
Nuclear Basics > Information Library > Our Association > Press > Events > Members Login >
Browse our information library index
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
World Nuclear Association Symposium Video
See highlights from last year's event
Watch the video >
Nuclear Energy and Climate Change
Read about nuclear energy's vital role in tackling climate change.
Link >
Our Association
Find out more about our association, our publications and our member companies.
More information >
Become a member
Publications
Online Reports
Prepared by the Association Secretariat and Working Group members.
More information >
Pocket Guides
Our Pocket Guides provide handy access to facts on key topics.
More information >
Position statements
A record of position statements produced by the World Nuclear Association.
More information >
Public consultations
Submissions made by the World Nuclear Association to public consultations
More information >
Publications for sale
These publications are available to buy from this website.
More information >
Weekly Digest
Distributed every week to email subscribers.
More information >
Shop
The World Nuclear Supply Chain: Outlook 2035
More Information
>
The World Nuclear University Primer. Nuclear Energy in the 21st Century
3rd Edition
More Information
>
The Nuclear Fuel Report: Global Scenarios for Demand and Supply Availability 2015-2035
More Information
>
Nuclear English: Language Skills for a Globalizing Industry
More Information
>
Nuclear Fuel Report and Supply Chain Report pack
More Information
>
Tweets by @WorldNuclear
World Nuclear News
Robot surveys Fukushima Daiichi containment vessel
Published: Fri, 17 Feb 2017 16:26:08 GMT
Tokyo Electric Power Company yesterday sent a robot into the primary containment vessel of the damaged unit 2 at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan. Although the robot was unable to reach the part of the vessel directly under the reactor pressure vessel, the company said the information it gathered will help it determine how to decommission the unit.
EU, IAEA agree to bolster cooperation
Published: Fri, 17 Feb 2017 17:02:12 GMT
The European Union and the International Atomic Energy Agency agreed to strengthen their cooperation in a range of nuclear activities, including nuclear science applications, during a meeting in Brussels this week.
Poroshenko: Ukraine increasing nuclear share to 60%
Published: Fri, 17 Feb 2017 16:30:33 GMT
Nuclear energy's share of Ukraine's electricity mix is "rapidly approaching" 60%, President Petro Poroshenko said at a meeting of the country's National Security and Defence Council yesterday, according to a statement on the presidential website. The president did not give a date by which the increase would be achieved.
Decommissioning plan for Shimane 1 amended
Published: Thu, 16 Feb 2017 15:03:59 GMT
Japanese utility Chugoku Electric Power Company has submitted to the regulator an amendment to its decommissioning plan for unit 1 of its Shimane nuclear power plant.
NuGen welcomes PM 'commitment' to Moorside
Published: Thu, 16 Feb 2017 16:47:10 GMT
NuGeneration has welcomed the British prime minister's comments yesterday about the importance of building a new nuclear power plant in West Cumbria, while the Institution of Mechanical Engineers has said the UK's plan to leave the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as part of Brexit could threaten new nuclear reactor projects.
Waste shipments to WIPP expected to resume soon
Published: Thu, 16 Feb 2017 13:24:02 GMT
The shipment of transuranic wastes from generator sites to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in New Mexico is set to resume in April. The US Department of Energy expects a total of 128 shipments to be made to WIPP over the next 12 months.
Positive future for nuclear, Amano tells summit
Published: Wed, 15 Feb 2017 16:02:46 GMT
Nuclear power will play an important role in meeting the world's future energy needs, International Atomic Energy Agency director general Yukiya Amano told the World Government Summit in Dubai yesterday.
Westinghouse reassures Summer plant owners
Published: Wed, 15 Feb 2017 16:59:11 GMT
Westinghouse Electric Company and its "parent guarantor" Toshiba Corp are committed to completing the two new Westinghouse AP1000 nuclear power units under construction in Jenkinsville, South Carolina. SCANA Corp said yesterday its main subsidiary, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company, and VC Summer Nuclear Station co-owner, Santee Cooper, had received this "reaffirmation".
Horizon forms operating partnership with Exelon
Published: Wed, 15 Feb 2017 22:54:22 GMT
Horizon Nuclear Power, the UK subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd, said today it was joining forces with Exelon Generation as Horizon develops its "expertise and capability" to operate a new nuclear power plant at Wylfa Newydd on the Isle of Anglesey. Exelon Generation operates the biggest fleet of nuclear power plants in the USA, with 19,460 megawatts of capacity from 22 units, eight of which are boiling water reactors. The Wylfa Newydd project will deploy two Advanced Boiling Water Reactors.
UK national nuclear archive opens in Scotland
Published: Wed, 15 Feb 2017 15:54:14 GMT
A national archive of records related to the history and development of the UK's civil nuclear industry opened to the public for the first time yesterday. The archive, located in Caithness, Scotland, is funded by the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
Nuclear Basics
Information Library Facts and Figures Country Briefings Nuclear Fuel Cycle Current and Future Generation Safety and Security Energy and the Environment Economic Aspects Non-power Nuclear Applications
Our Association Who we are What we do Membership Publications Shop
Press Statements Briefings Gallery
Events
Members Login
Contact
© 2016 World Nuclear Association, registered in England and Wales, number 01215741.
Registered office: Tower House, 10 Southampton Street, London, WC2E 7HA, United Kingdom
Reuse of World Nuclear Association Content
