Drinks & Beverage Industry News | Market Research - just-drinks
Molson Coors Full-Year 2016 Results - Round-Up
In February, Molson Coors reported its results for the 12 months of 2016. Here's a full round-up of just-drinks' coverage of the brewer's numbers.
Tobacco's hopes for drinks, stock of the year and the death of the analyst - The just-drinks Analyst
In his latest commentary for just-drinks, former drinks analyst Ian Shackleton considers the tobacco model for drinks companies. He also gives us his tip of the stock to watch in 2017.
Heineken Full-Year 2016 results - Round-up
In February, Carlsberg reported its results for the 12 months of 2016. Here's a full round-up of just-drinks' coverage of the brewer's numbers.
"We have really instilled a discipline within the organisation" - Interview, Michael Clarke, CEO,...
Earlier today, Treasury Wine Estates reported another strong set of figures, with half-year sales jumping by almost a quarter and net profits more-than-doubling. Following the release of the results, just-drinks spoke to CEO Michael Clarke.
Sign up today for just-drinks FREE daily newsletter
Head here to receive just-drinks' free daily newsletter, which covers all that is going on in the global beer, soft drinks, spirits, bottled water and wine categories.
Beverage Industry Insights
View all Insights
Will Bai take Dr Pepper to the next level?
On a conference call following the company's full-year results announcement this week, Dr Pepper Snapple Group CEO Larry Young said newly-ac...
Heineken goes from strength to strength - Analysis
In the notes that followed Heineken's full-year 2016 results yesterday, several analysts use the word 'strong' to illustrate the brewer's pe...
Molson Coors' Q4 & FY 2016 results - Preview
Ahead of the release tomorrow of Molson Coors' results for the fourth quarter and the 12 months of 2016, here's a look at the events that sh...
Dr Pepper Snapple Group FY 2016 results - Preview
Ahead of the release on Tuesday of Dr Pepper Snapple Group's (DPSG) results for the fourth quarter and the 12 months of 2016, here's a look...
Same old song for Coca-Cola - Analysis
There was a bit of sparkle around The Coca-Cola Co's full-year results release yesterday as it was the first since CEO Muhtar Kent announced...
How India's demonetisation has affected Pernod
In November, the Indian Government passed reforms withdrawing the INR500 (US$7.40) and INR1,000 notes as legal tender in the country. The sn...
Chile's wine future burned by wild fires - Comment
9 Feb 17
Wild fires hit the Chilean - and then global - headlines earlier this month. The subsequent damage to some of the country's vineyards may have affected just a few, but, as Chris Losh observes, that damage could have catastrophic consequences for Chile's flag-bearing wine makers.
Pernod Ricard H1 Fiscal-2017 - results data
9 Feb 17
Earlier today, Pernod Ricard reported results for the first half of its fiscal-2017. Group sales rose by 4% in the six months to the end of December, while net and operating profits were up similarly. Here, just-drinks considers Pernod's results on a by-region and -brand basis.
Thought Leaders
View all Thought Leaders
Less is more: Why wine in smaller packages is the next big thing
Consumers increasingly prefer smaller wine portions, particularly millennials and people in emerging markets.....Enter the ‘mini-revolut...
Drinks Industry News
View all News
Rum braced for falling volumes in years ahead
Richard Woodard | 16 Feb 17
The global rum market is set to face a tough future, according to joint research from just-drinks and The IWSR, with volumes expected to slide over the next five years.
Non-alcoholic Heineken set to hit Europe - CEO
Lucy Britner | 16 Feb 17
The CEO of Heineken has said the company will roll out a non-alcoholic version of its namesake beer brand in Europe this year, as it looks to capitalise on the trend towards low- and no- alcohol products.
Absolut price must hold firm in the US - Pernod
Lucy Britner | 10 Feb 17
The CEO of Pernod Ricard has said the company must stand its ground on Absolut's pricing in the US, in the wake of increasing pressure from the vodka category.
Recent News
- (Updated: 3:46pm 17 Feb 2017)
This week's top soft drinks stories on just-drinks
The top spirits & wine stories on just-drinks
This week's top beer stories on just-drinks
Beam Suntory revamps Bowmore whisky packaging
Angostura Holdings names Genevieve Jodhan CEO
Lucozade Zero Original - NPD
Europe's drinks companies start engines on CETA
No impact from Trump, Brexit - PepsiCo
Beverage Industry Interviews
View all Interviews
"We know exactly what our plans look like by region for the next five years" - Interview, Michael Clarke, CEO, Treasury Wine Estates - Part II
15 Feb 17
Olly Wehring
Earlier this week, Treasury Wine Estates released its results for the first six months of fiscal-2017. Following the announcement, just-drinks spoke to CEO Michael Clarke and, in this, the second part of our interview, we discuss the performances of TWE's regions and ask Clarke what he has brought to the group since he joined, three years ago.
"We have really instilled a discipline within the organisation" - Interview, Michael Clarke, CEO, Treasury Wine Estates - Part I
14 Feb 17
Olly Wehring
Earlier today, Treasury Wine Estates reported another strong set of figures, with half-year sales jumping by almost a quarter and net profits more-than-doubling. Following the release of the results, just-drinks spoke to CEO Michael Clarke about the numbers, and how he has managed to turn around a company that less than three years ago took an impairment charge of almost US$250m.
"I never thought Bulldog would reach these heights"  - Interview, Bulldog Gin founder and CEO, Anshuman Vohra
3 Feb 17
Lucy Britner
Yesterday, Gruppo Campari announced an agreement to buy Bulldog Gin. Here, just-drinks talks to brand founder Anshuman Vohra about the transaction.
just-drinks Blog
View all Blogs
When life gives you lemons, make soap
Lucy Britner | 9 Feb 17
Bacardi's 42 Below vodka brand has found a novel way to use the lemons left over from cocktail-making: Turn them into liquid soap.
Small measures required as Philadelphia soda tax adds up
Andy Morton | 4 Jan 17
Philadelphia’s soda tax came into force on Sunday, and is reportedly causing a stir in the city's check-out aisles.
Angostura advertises the news
Lucy Britner | 12 Dec 16
Most of the time, changes at the top of a company present themselves in press releases, stock exchange filings or responses from a spokesperson.
Beverage Hot Issues
View all Hot Issues
just-drinks Vodka Essentials
As part of just-drinks' Spirits Essentials series, this look at the vodka category provides comprehensive figures and information on the sector, its markets and its trends.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group Full-Year 2016 results - Round-up
In February, Dr Pepper Snapple Group released its results for 2016. Here's a full round-up of just-drinks' coverage of the company's 12-month numbers.
Molson Coors Full-Year 2016 Results - Round-Up
In February, Molson Coors reported its results for the 12 months of 2016. Here's a full round-up of just-drinks' coverage of the brewer's numbers.
just-drinks Predictions of the Year Ahead - 2017 Preview
Throughout January, just-drinks' regular sector commentators have given their take on what the next 12 months have in store for the beer, soft drinks, white and brown spirits and wine categories.
Drinks Market ResearchView more
Global Scotch insights - market forecasts, product innovation and consumer
Global Scotch insights - market forecasts, product innovation and consumer trends
This edition of our global Scotch report contains the latest data from The IWSR combined with our unique analyst insights and brand interview extracts. It forecasts the future of both blended and malt Scotch. For the former, the report suggests market reinvigoration and a fresh approach are required. For the latter, it is poised to continue its recent march to 2021, moving from 9m cases to nearly 11.5m cases in the process. This report strategically reviews the global Scotch category, providing future insights into what the sector has to do to grow over the coming years... Read more
Published: February 2017 - ($1500.00)
Consumer and Market Insights: Wine market in UK
Published: January 2017 - ($1081.20)
Opportunities in Craft Spirits
Published: December 2016 - ($1232.50)
Quarterly Beverage Tracker – Third Quarter 2016 United Kingdom
Published: December 2016 - ($1398.25)
Molson Coors Brewing Co in Beer (World)
Published: December 2016 - ($572.00)
About just-drinks
just-drinks is the online resource for the beverage industry. Packed with the latest global drinks industry news, analysis and comment, just-drinks gives beverage industry executives the intelligence they need to do their jobs better. In addition to our unique beverage industry news and comment, readers of just-drinks also have access to our flavourings buyers' guide, complete with downloads, flavourings news, research, and details of flavourings companies who supply the beverage industry.
Visitors to just-drinks can also buy global drinks industry research from our own market research store, and our online advertising team also offer opportunities for companies to advertise to our membership of senior decision makers. Join the thousands of drinks executives who stay ahead of trends in the global beverage industry with just-drinks.
Login |
Join
Email Address
Password
Forgot your password?
Menu
LoginJoin
Drinks News & comment
Comment
Analysis
Columns
Editor's Viewpoint
Beer - Beaumont's Brews
Soft Drinks & Water - A Bit of Corbett
Soft Drinks & Water - What Does Ray Say
Spirits (White) - A Word with Woodward
Spirits (Brown) - Banging the Dram
Wine - The Losh Cause
All columns
Financials & M&A
Interviews
Industry issues
Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
Environmental issues
Drinks legislation
Health matters
Launches & NPD
Marketing & promotions
Hot issues
The just-drinks blog
Management briefings
Thought Leaders
Latest news
Analysis
Comment
Interviews
just-drinks blog
Spirits Essentials
Scotch Whisky Essentials
World Whiskey Essentials
Rum Essentials
Gin Essentials
Cognac Essentials
Vodka Essentials
Regions
Western Europe
Eastern Europe
North America
China & Asia
Emerging Markets
Oceania
Latin America
BRIC
Africa
All countries
Companies
Diageo
Pernod Ricard
Anheuser-Busch InBev
Heineken
The Coca-Cola Company
SABMiller
Bacardi Ltd
Carlsberg
PepsiCo
Brown-Forman
Molson Coors
Constellation Brands
William Grant & Sons
Treasury Wine Estates
Suntory
Beam Suntory Inc
Remy Cointreau
Gruppo Campari
Kirin Brewery Co.
RicardAll companies
Sectors
Beer & Cider
Spirits
Wine
Soft drinks
Water
All sectors
Drinks research
Drinks market research
Drinks consultancy
About
About just-drinks
Advertise on just-drinks
Contact just-drinks
Join 31,000 drinks professionals who get just-drinks’ FREE newsletters
Get the daily news as it happens, and our weekly best-of roundup.
Daily News Alert:
see example
Weekly Summary:
see example
Beverage Research Updates:
see example
No thanks
Buy beverage market research
New beverage market research
Beverage sector market research
Beverage companies market research
Beverage market research publishers
Flavourings buyers' guide
Beverage industry consultants
Beverage industry webinars
News & comment by region
Your account
Advertise on just-drinks
Subscribe to just-drinks
RSS feeds
Site map
About just-drinks
©2017 All content copyright just-drinks.com
Published by Aroq Ltd. Address & registered office: Aroq House, 17A Harris Business Park, Bromsgrove, Worcs, B60 4DJ, UK.
Tel:
Intl +44 (0)1527 573 600. Toll Free from US: 1-866-545-5878. Fax: +44 (0)1527 577423.
Registered in England No:
4307068.
Aroq publishes just-auto.com | just-food.com | just-drinks.com | just-style.com
Get full access to all content, just $1 for 30 days
Expand
A Message From The Editor [x]
just-drinks gives you the widest beverage market coverage.
But only paid just-drinks members have full, unlimited access to all our exclusive content - including 17 years of archives.
I am so confident you will love complete access to our content that today I can offer you 30 days access for $1.
It’s our best ever membership offer – just for you.
Olly Wehring, editor of just-drinks
Get 30 days for $1
Risk-free, money-back guarantee
