Creating limited-edition projects for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee - Design Week
Our website uses cookies to improve your user experience. If you continue browsing, we assume that you consent to our use of cookies. More information can be found in our Privacy & Cookies Policy.
X
Skip to content
Design Week
People
Projects
Insight
Resources
Inspiration
Awards
Jobs
Newsletter
Search
Login / Register
Primary Menu
Close
Go
Close
Email
Password
orRegister
Creating limited-edition projects for the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee
The run-up to the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee in June is bringing with it scores of limited-edition branded products.
By Tom Banks
April 26, 2012
5:48 pm
January 30, 2015
11:59 am
Happy and Glorious special edition Lyle’s Golden Syrup, by Design BridgeDesigners are having to reconcile brand guidelines with national and celebratory imagery without being too kitsch or jingoistic.
Other hurdles include legality – no pictures of the Queen – and the fact that there are no official branded jubilee products.
One solution is to create non-specific national celebratory imagery, while avoiding muddling the statement with that other national celebration this summer, The London Olympics.
Design Bridge’s limited-edition packaging for Tate & Lyle’s Golden Syrup launches this week and the consultancy has done away with ‘Lyle’s Golden Syrup’ in favour of ‘Happy and Glorious.’
The 19th-century brand, which was founded under Queen Victoria’s reign carries a royal warrant, and  Asa Cook, design director of Design Bridge says there was scope to ‘avoid any jingoistic or cliched connotations’ and instead look to ‘the emotional aspect and a sense of community.’
Cook says ‘Some of the icons for these events are obvious. I don’t want to write in huge letters Jubilee. It’s important to celebrate without being seen as jumping on a band-wagon’.
Detail from the brand’s filigree style rendering have been applied to a crown design and the logo arch ‘seamlessly blends’ the new Happy and Glorious language, says Cook.
Tate & Lyle Royal Icing, by Design BridgeThe project follows Design Bridge’s To Have To Hold Royal Icing Sugar Work for Tate and Lyle last year in the run-up to the Royal wedding, where the consultancy again built a design around playful language and consumer familiarity with the brand.
Hornall Anderson’s Jubilee edition of Marmite – or Ma’amite as they’ve branded it (geddit?) – takes a similar route, conveying occasion and ceremony, with the tag-line ‘Toasting the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee.’
The colours have been changed to red white and blue and a reference made to the national flag ‘in a way which doesn’t detract from the brand power, yet still honours the celebration,’ says Hornall Anderson design director Matt Gandy.
‘With other limited editions we’ve done for Marmite, the design has been led by the change in flavour – like Guinness, or champagne, but this time we’ve got Union Jack and crown equities to play with as well,’ says Gandy.
The crown has been played with very carefully mind, within guidelines set by the The Lord Chamberlain’s office.
Ma ‘amite special edition by Hornall Anderson‘You can’t use the Queen’s crown, coat of arms, or lots of other personal imagery, so we’ve redrawn the crown in a more “Marmite” way,’ says Gandy.
These designs will soon be joined by many others. Brandopus has already delivered Jubilee packaging for Twinings tea and is currently working on no less then four separate jubilee briefs for other companies. Roll out the bunting, and the barrel maybe.
December 2011 Insight Branding Packaging
Recommended
Identica forms partnership with product design group Hyphen
DCA Design bags Queen’s Award for Enterprise
Ink & Paper gig posters exhibition
Poke creates racetrack game for Orange
Form celebrates its 21st Birthday
Read this next
Consultancies appointed to Olympic Park design work
Hide Comments (1)Show Comments (1)
Comments
Emma
November 30, -0001 at 12:00 am
Neat ideas – love’em
Reply
Post a comment
Name
Email
Cancel reply
Latest articles
V&A set for blockbuster Pink Floyd exhibition Pink Floyd’s Roger Waters and Nick Mason have been brought together with the designers who helped define the visual language of the band ahead of a V&A show, which is set to be on the same scale as the museum’s David Bowie exhibition.
Insight
Contemporary art magazine Frieze redesigns to be “less beautiful” The magazine’s art director David Lane has given it a new print design, which aims to represent how contemporary art is “reactive” and “makes a statement”.
Projects
OkCupid focuses on “more substance than selfie” with app redesign The dating site’s in-house design team has done away with Tinder-style features and commissioned designer Jay Daniel Wright to create a series of colourful illustrations.
Projects
Apple could develop wireless, windup charging The tech company has patented a magnetic winding charger that is similar in appearance to the winding mechanism seen in traditional watch designs.
Projects
InspirationMore projects
International idiom series, by Paul Blow and Viking Direct Office supplies company Viking Direct has commissioned illustrator Paul Blow to create visual interpretations of idioms used in different languages. The British company hopes to showcase its breadth of international employees through the fun project, with 11 illustrations of idioms originating from different countries, along with their meanings in English. Obscure examples include “To slide […]
Building V&A Dundee film, by V&A Dundee team Building V&A Dundee from V&A Dundee on Vimeo. The team behind the yet-to-open Victoria and Albert (V&A) Dundee has released a film detailing its architecture and the cultural place it will hold in the city. The film includes interviews with people involved in the project such as architect Kengo Kuma and Dundee City Council executive […]
The Fabulous Nicholas Brothers campaign, by All Works Co. All Works has designed a campaign for a new film compilation of the Nicholas Brothers, a 1930s black American tap-dancing duo who helped to encourage racial integration in the entertainment industry. The film compilation is part of the British Film Institute’s (BFI) Black Star season. The campaign aims to capture the “movement, energy and dynamic […]
Octapharma book, by Volt Swedish consultancy Volt has designed a book for Swiss pharmaceuticals company Octapharma’s Moscow office. The book looks at the architecture and history of the building in which the company is based in Russia. The print design reflects the building’s past, with a gradient running through the book that starts with the original colour of the […]
Lichfields identity, by JWDK and GW+Co Brand design consultancies JWDK and GW+Co have rebranded planning and development consultancy Lichfields, with a series of colourful, geometric shapes representing buildings. The abstract, Tetris-style shapes are based on a bird’s eye view of different urban landscapes, says JWDK, and are used to hold images and photography, create letters, and one is used to contain […]
Light Eye Mind branding, by All Works Co. Consultancy All Works has designed a new visual identity for north London art gallery Light Eye Mind, which plays with the ability of the human eye to read inverted letters. The new branding features a simple, sans-serif, all-capitals, black typeface used for the gallery name and accompanying copy. Certain letters are inverted, either by being […]
Fashion Revolution fanzine, by Fashion Revolution Fashion Revolution has published the first issue of its eponymous fanzine, called #001 Money Fashion Power. The issue looks to explore “the hidden stories behind our clothing”, highlighting factors such as how consumers can use their purchasing power to make a positive difference for garment workers. The Fashion Revolution team has collaborated with a series […]
Brighton Festival identity, by Johnson Banks Johnson Banks has designed the identity for this year’s Brighton Festival, which is being guest directed by poet and recording artist Kate Tempest. The identity is inspired by the theme of the festival programme curated by Tempest: “Everyday Epic”. It features an illustration by Brighton-based tattoo artist Adam Sage, inspired by Greek mythology but featuring […]
Latest jobs More jobs
Online Creative Designer
Enderby, Leicestershire NEXT
Residential Interior Designer
Adrem Group
Service Design Leader
Philips
Graphic Design Manager
The Natural History Museum
Job of the week
Creative Director – Shopper Marketing Agency
The LEGO Group
Close Sectors
Branding
Editorial
Education
Exhibition
Furniture
Graphics
Interactive
Interiors
Legal
Packaging
Politics
Print
Product
Retail
Types
People
Projects
Insight
Inspiration
Resources
Issues
Current Issue
All issues
Design Week at 30
Design in 2016
Careers Survey 2016
Top 100
Creative Survey
More
Age of Design
Awards
Jobs
Contact Us
Follow us
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
LinkedIn
G+
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
Linkedin
Instagram
G+
Advertising Information
Contact Us
Privacy
T&Cs
Dashboard
© 2016. All rights reserved.
built by interconnect/it
Centaur Communications Ltd (a member of the Centaur Media plc group)
Wells Point, 79 Wells Street, London W1T 3QN. Registered in England No: 1595235
