Digital agency Cambridge - Web Design, Development, Marketing
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Skip to contact
01223 311 098
01223 311 098
Navigation
Contact
Web design
Web development
Digital marketing
Cambridge Photography
Work
People
Careers
Blog
Download: Our Credentials
Share:
;
Hello, we are a digital agency in Cambridge
Igentics are an independent digital agency based in Cambridge. We provide web design, web development, app development & digital marketing services to deliver world class digital solutions to our international client base.
View the services that we offer.
The UK Creative Industries
The UK has one of the most diverse and vibrant creative landscapes. www.thecreativeindustries.co.uk has been developed and launched to promote UK creative Industries to the world with a fully responsive website and animated launch movie.
www.thecreativeindustries.co.uk
The IPA
Working with the IPA (The Institute of Practitioners in Advertising) to deliver a brand new site, completely revised information architecture and full creative redesign, supported by technology from Senior Internet and awarded Official Honoree status at the 17th Annual International Webby Awards.
www.ipa.co.uk
Marley Eternit
New brand implementation and website redesign to deliver a truly responsive experience.
www.marleyeternit.co.uk
Norgren eCommerce
Working with a manufacturing giant to deliver multi-channel & market specific eCommerce on a global scale.
store.norgren.com
Indesit customer service
Working with household brands to deliver a completely redesigned and revitalised customer service experience.
www.indesitservice.co.uk
Britvic corporate
Full service design and development projects, delivering Sitecore based corporate website to one of the two largest drink and beverages organisations in the UK and Europe.
www.britvic.co.uk
RS Components
Bespoke development to deliver site wide creative elements to all markets in record time.
uk.rs-online.com
WORLD CLASS DIGITAL AGENCY
Igentics are a Cambridge based Digital Agency providing award-winning web design, web development, app development and digital marketing services. Anything from a global e-commerce website that handles sales in excess of £100m, to creating a logo for a local artisan baker.
We work with a range of organisations, including FTSE 100 companies, family businesses, SMEs, charities and the public sector. We have the experience, the honesty and the desire to give you what you need.
View our services.     See our work.      Contact us.
Paris Pledge For Action / Paris Agreement
A first class responsive web design for an extremely high profile website that has been used by global leaders. #COP21
web design & build
Hotpoint
Information architecture, user experience, website design and web development
website
Jointheteam
We are recruiting
Britvic Soft Drinks
Information architecture, user experience, website design and web development
website
Webby Award Winner 2013
Award winning
web design & user experience for the IPA
web design
ScopeDesignDevelopPromote
view our services
Creative Industries
Information architecture, user experience, responsive website design, web development & brand development
website
Indesit
Information architecture, user experience, website design and web development
website
Seeourwork
Be inspired
The IPA
Information architecture, user experience, website design, responsive design and consultancy
website
Marley Eternit
Information architecture, user experience, web design, responsive design, web development & mobile marketing
website
Object reference not set to an instance of an object.
Call
01223 311 098
01223 311 098
Email
info@igentics.com
Visit
Bolton's Warehouse 23 Tenison Road Cambridge, CB1 2DG
Share
How can we help?
Give us a call. Drop us an email. Fill in the form. We’ll get back to you. Usually pretty fast.
Design
Web design
Responsive web design
Print design
Brand development & evolution
Web design Cambridge
Web development
Sitecore development
Umbraco development
WordPress development
Drupal development
Bespoke web development
App development
Digital marketing
SEO consultancy
PPC consultancy
Email marketing services
Social media marketing
Search engine marketing
Contact
Igentics Ltd Boltons Warehouse 23 Tenison Road Cambridge, CB1 2DG
Tel: 01223 311098
Email: info@igentics.com
inspire your audience
create engagement
+
Copyright © 2016 Igentics Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sitemap
Terms & Conditions
Blog
