intelligent measurement | All about evaluation and measurement
intelligent measurement
Home
Contact
About
Participatory tools for M&E
ActionAid has just released an online toolbox and platform focused on participatory tools and processes for monitoring and evaluation.
Check out the Tools page that features some 80 participatory tools.
Here is a description of the toolbox from ActionAid:
The Reflection-Action Toolbox is an online platform which enable people to connect around how participatory tools and processes are used in practice. The aim is to create a global community of practice and provide an opportunity for M&E practitioners to access range of participatory tools, promote shared learning about added value of these tools, challenges faced, adaptations and innovations made in different contextual realities where applied.
Image from the Power Flower tool!
February 9, 2017 at 5:15 pm
Leave a comment
Use of evaluation findings; types and influences
This month I gave presentation on “evaluation findings – types and influences” at the Swiss national health promotion conference. Some of the key points I raised were:
Use may not be instrumental and direct as expected
Stakeholder involvement is critical to use
Organisations can influence evaluation use
Use can be unpredictable, opportunistic & unexpected
Curious? View my slides below!
January 31, 2017 at 1:51 pm
Leave a comment
New e-learning course: cutting edge M&E
A new e-learning course is available from TRAASS international ; Cutting-Edge M&E: A Guide for Practitioners. The course is taught by Colin Jacobs, a senior trainer with more than 25 years’ experience in international development. Colin’s recent roles include President at the UK Evaluation Society and Head, Governance and Civil Society at British Council.
This online course lays the ground for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) to make vital contributions to incentivising change and measure performance. The course considers challenges in current M&E practice, introduces a tool-box of evaluation techniques and shows where these can be best applied. Ways of promoting early participation and the engagement of key stakeholders are explored and a step-by-step action plan to improve practice of M&E is provided. Further information>>
Full disclosure; I also present an e-learning course for TRAASS International; Effective and creative evaluation report writing.
January 24, 2017 at 10:30 am
Leave a comment
Toolkit: Advocating for Evaluation
Here is an interesting new publication “Advocating for Evaluation: A toolkit to develop advocacy strategies to strengthen an enabling environment for evaluation” (pdf) from Eval Partners. The focus of the toolkit is on how to advocate for a supportive environment for evaluation.
January 17, 2017 at 3:04 pm
Leave a comment
Event – The Future of Technology for Evaluation
A very interesting event is scheduled for February 20-21 2017 in London; the Future of technology for monitoring, evaluation, research and learning – MERL TECH; learn more about the event>>
January 10, 2017 at 3:24 pm
Leave a comment
New report: Evaluation Capacity and Practice in the US Nonprofit Sector
A very interesting report is just out from the Innovation Network on the  Evaluation Capacity and Practice in the US Nonprofit Sector (pdf).
Here are some excerpts on resources and evaluation:
99% of organisations have someone responsible for evaluation
84% of organisations spend less than 5% on evaluation
16% spend zero on evaluation (!)
There are also more interesting findings on evaluation use and barriers/supporting factors for evaluation – view the report here (pdf)>>
December 13, 2016 at 5:44 pm
Leave a comment
New resource: Evaluation of Humanitarian Action Guide
ALNAP has recently released their Evaluation of Humanitarian Action Guide.
The guide was six years in the making and contains detailed advice and tips on evaluating humanitarian action. Even if your focus is not on evaluating humanitarian activities, Chapter 17 on Communicating and Reporting Findings and Results is well worth a read.
View the guide here>>
December 7, 2016 at 7:16 am
Leave a comment
Older Posts
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,072 other followers
Search for:
Categories
Advocacy evaluation
Campaign evaluation
communicating evaluation results
Communication evaluation
Conference / event evaluation
Development evaluation
Evaluation methodology
Evaluation reporting
Evaluation tools (surveys, interviews..)
Evaluation use
General
Media analysis & monitoring
Network analysis & mapping
PR evaluation
Research & Studies
Social media monitoring
Training evaluation
Trainings, Seminars & Conferences
Web metrics
Feeds
Entries (RSS)
Comments (RSS)
Blogroll
Benchpoint Ltd
BetterEvaluation
Dummyspit
Eval Central
Evaluating the media
Evaluation Portal – Link Collection
KDPaine’s PR Measurement Blog
Measurement PRoponent / PRomulgator
Metrica – Measurement matters
Monitoring & Evaluation News
NewPR/Wiki-PR Measurement
On Think Tanks
Owl RE
Proving the value of PR
SEA CHANGE
Shel Holtz’s Blog – communication & technology
The Thoughtful Thud
Blog at WordPress.com.
intelligent measurement
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
