Limewash - Marketing, Brand, Communications Agency Cambridge
Toggle navigation
Approach
Work
Team
Opinion
Start-Up Package
Contact
We create effective brands that deliver their promise.
But don't just take our word for it...
“Their creativity has re-energised our brand and revolutionised our communications.“
Camilla Nichol, Chief Executive, UKAHT
We create messages that mean something to your audience.
But don't just take our word for it...
“Our target audience has a better appreciation of our added value.“
Jonathan Burroughs, CEO, Creative Places
We produce high quality materials that deliver results.
But don't just take our word for it...
“They ‘got us‘ better than we got ourselves. The final product was superb.“
Chris Tooley, Principal, Netherhall School
Our Start-Up Package helps clients build a brand, not just a business.
But don't just take our word for it...
"You gave me confidence and captured the essence of who I am very well."
Susie Hayden, Speech & Language Therapy
What We Do
Marketing Strategy
We provide high quality strategic analysis and advice to help you get the most from your marketing.
Design & Content Creation
Our talented designers and content specialists convert strategic thinking into creative visuals and messages.
Integrated Delivery
We build and deliver the things we advise on and create - websites, PR programmes, digital campaigns, events, brochures etc.
WORK
Find out how were-invigorated the UKAntarctic HeritageTrust brand.
WORK
Explore how we helped Creative Places accelerate their growth with a dynamic brand positioning and effective communications.
WORK
Discover how we work with Chesterford Research Park as their marketing team.
START-UP PACKAGE
Starting a new business?Discover how we can help you build your brand, and get your business off to the best start possible.
Who we are
Our experienced team bring strategy and brands to life with inspiring, creative and intelligent design.
Latest Opinion
'Top 5 Marketing Mistakes'
Marketing is often seen as a support and not a strategic function. Lewis explores some of the common mistakes we encounter that lead to companies wasting time, effort and money through this approach.
Lewis Robinson, Director, Limewash
Latest News
'A Year at Limewash'
Uncover useful insights from our designer, Natasha, as she celebrates her first year at Limewash.
Natasha Apps, Designer, Limewash
CONTACT US
01223 813 557info@limewash.co.uk
The Old Station,Station Road, Stow-cum-Quy,Cambridge CB25 9AJ
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR MAILING LIST
First Name
Surname
Email address
Submit
Submitting... one moment.
Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter. You will now receive a message asking you to confirm your email address. Please check your inbox.
Explore Limewash
Approach
Strategy & Planning
Design & Content Creation
Cross Media Production
Start-Up Package
Work
UK Antarctic Heritage Trust
GHX
Creative Places
XenoVida
Netherhall School
Optrys
Milton Hall
Chesterford Research Park
Susie Hayden
Team
Opinion
Contact
Cookie Policy
