Gabriel Hemery
Skip to content
Blog
Books
book news
tree photography
buy tree photograph prints
tree photography blog posts
Silvology
About
Biography
Contact
silvologist
•
author
•
photographer
Gabriel Hemery
Welcome to my silvological blog, celebrating and studying trees, forests and woods.
I’m a published author and keen amateur photographer. By profession I’m a silvologist or forest scientist.
My personal blog features a celebration of all things sylvan, including:
◍ insights of the latest tree and forestry science
◍ opinion about current tree and woodland issues
◍ latest news about my books
◍ an eye on the sylvan world through my tree photography
I live near Oxford in the UK where I’m Chief Executive of Sylva Foundation; a charity I co-founded in 2009.
Read more about me
blog
books
tree photography
about
Share this:Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)MoreClick to print (Opens in new window)Click to email (Opens in new window)
Galleries
Tree Charter: a voice for trees and people
Review of Arboreal in Nature
Top tree and wood books 2016
Latest news
Tree Charter: a voice for trees and people
January 12th, 2017
Our life on Earth is entwined with trees, even if we’re not always aware of their importance. It often takes a special moment for us remember the significance of something we can so easily take for granted. The Year 2017 is one such moment for trees and forests in the UK, this being the 800th anniversary of the Charter of the Forest.
Ode to the saw
January 11th, 2017
British children learn about tropical rainforests and deforestation in schools, as part of the national curriculum, but are taught virtually nothing about our own forests. In an increasingly urban world most young people, except those fortunate enough to experience Forest School, will leave education with little understanding of the natural world round them. It’s perhaps unsurprising therefore that the sound of a chainsaw in a British woodland is often associated with destruction rather than rejuvenation.
Review of Arboreal in Nature
October 29th, 2016
This week the long-awaited woodland anthology Arboreal was finally released. Edited by Adrian Cooper the book includes contributions from more than 40 authors, poets, photographers, sculptors and others.
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
