Standard & Poor's | Americas
×
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our Privacy & Cookie Notice.
Americas (English)
Select a region to view that regional site. Hover over a region and select the star to set as your default region, if available. Americas
Americas (English)
Latin America (Spanish)
Latin America (Portuguese)
Europe, MiddleEast, Africa
Europe
Maalot
Russia
Asia
Australia/New Zealand
Asia (English)
Japan
S&P Affiliates
India - Crisil
Taiwan Ratings
Contact
Feedback
S&P.com will be conducting routine maintenance Friday at 8pm through Sunday at 5pm, New York time. Site performance may not be optimal during this time. In addition, there may be a period of time when there will be no ratings updates. We apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your patience.
S&P Global Ratings
With 26 offices around the world and a history that dates back more than 150 years, S&P Global Ratings provides high-quality market intelligence in the form of credit ratings, research, and thought leadership.
Find
Entity
CUSIP CINS ISIN
Browse Ratings By Practice
Actions & Criteria
Ratings Actions
Press Releases
Ratings Criteria
Requests for Comment
Regulatory
Disclosures
Form NRSRO
Policies & Code of Conduct
Credit Rating History
Ratings Definitions
Significant Model Errors
Ratings Resources
Understanding Ratings
Research & Analysis
Products & Capabilities
Company Info
About Us
Newsroom
Contact Us
Careers at S&P Global Ratings
S&P Dow Jones Indices
S&P Dow Jones Indices is the world's largest, global resource for index-based concepts, data and research. Home to iconic financial market indicators, such as the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P Dow Jones Indices has over 120 years of experience constructing innovative and transparent solutions that fulfill the needs of institutional and retail investors.
Visit Site
Indexology® Blog
An industry recognized blog dedicated to current investment trends and index innovation.
VIX® Views
Objective insight on volatility – its use as a financial product, its impact on global markets and how you can use it to enhance your investment strategies.
HousingViews®
A leading industry blog featuring posts, reports and commentary on the U.S. housing market.
Careers at S&P Dow Jones Indices
S&P Global Market Intelligence
S&P Global Market Intelligence is a leading provider of multi-asset class data and research, delivered through innovative platforms, and coupled with insightful analysis. We cover 99% of the world's total market capitalization and harness 135 billion data points a year. We aspire to be more than a financial intelligence provider. We want to be a catalyst for growth, transparency, and value creation in the global capital markets.
Visit Site
S&P Global Market Intelligence Insights
Stay ahead of the curve on today's markets with "Insights" — the new blog from S&P Global Market Intelligence
Insightful Events
S&P Global Market Intelligence events cover topics ranging from mergers and acquisitions to project finance and infrastructure.
Careers at S&P Global Market Intelligence
Whatever your background or career level, S&P Global Market Intelligence offers a broad range of opportunities in technology, product development, sales and marketing, and more.
Legal Disclaimers Terms of Use Privacy and Cookie Notice
Copyright © 2017 Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC. All rights reserved.
