2idesign / Graphic Design Cambridge / Website Design / Branding / Publishing
GraphicDesignAgency
Work
Website
Branding
Publishing
Text about UI Design here
Sectors
Business to Business
Consumer
Education
Scientific
Public Sector
Technology
Pro bono
Agency
Contact
Website
Branding
Publishing
Sectors
Agency
Contact
Amgen Marketing
Exhibition Graphics and Publications
Beaphar Branding
European Product Campaign
Cambridge Consultants
Magazine and App Design for Interface
Letts
Eduction
Fun Farmyard Learning Series of 16 Books
Psonar Branding
Website and App Design
Graphic Design AgencyCambridge
We'd love to work with yout. 01223 421016
We specialise in website design, branding and publishing
2idesign is an established Graphic Design Agency based in St John’s Innovation Centre, specialising in website design, branding and publishing. As graphic designers we design print and digital solutions for start-up and established corporate companies as well as publishers. Our integrated approach to creative design, project management and editorial is unique and this is echoed by the professionalism of our client base.
Websites that are designed to be easy to use
2idesign create beautifully designed websites that are clean and easy to use. We have designed and built a variety of websites from marketing brochure websites to corporate, commercial, consumer, education, charity and point of presence websites.
Supercapacitor breakthrough for our client SuperCapacitor Materials @2idesign #websitedesign #branding #cambridge https://t.co/sNxD9mpjZW
Branding to strengthen your company image
2idesign can create an entirely new look or develop your existing brand, delivering a distinguishable visual identity with the flexibility to work in a breadth of formats. From Word templates to
Annual Reviews, we can strengthen the image of your company.
great creativity combined with a clear understanding of our brand values enabling them to produce a compelling and engaging website design that is also simple and elegant
Martin Rigby CEO, Psonar
Publishing with a focus on design and editorial
2idesign have over 15 years experience working in the publishing industry with many International and household known publishers. Our unique skills lie in
projects that require a high level of integration between design and editorial.
we have found the company to be an excellent partner in creating a strong image and range of media publications, both in responding to our ideas and providing creative stimulus
Andrew Hutchinson Executive Principal, Parkside Federation Academies
Do you know your UI from your UX
2idesign believe that it is impossible to produce an exceptional interface design without a strong knowledge of both terms. But add to this our USP in producing educational publications, where the editorial and design are interlinked or our focus on designing websites that are easy to use and you achieve the perfect UI/UX design.
No negative thoughts allowed
Share
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Google+
1999–2016 © 2idesign Ltd. Graphic Design Agency Cambridge
St Johns Innovation Centre
t. 01223 421016
e. theteam@2idesign.co.uk
