AVEVA | Engineering software for the Plant and Marine industries
About
Careers
Investors
Partners
English
English
Chinese
French
German
Japanese
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Spanish
Toggle navigation
search
Solutions
Continual Progression Through Effective Solutions
Overview
Product Finder
Brownfield Modification
Cloud Solutions
Contract Management
Enterprise Resource Management
Information Management
Integrated Engineering & Design
Integrated Shipbuilding
Laser Solutions
Steel Fabrication
Your Industry
Unique Technology Designed Specifically for Your Industry
Overview
AEC & Infrastructure
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Fabrication
Marine
Mining & Minerals
Oil & Gas
Power & Utilities
Pulp & Paper
Resources
Discover a World of Design and Engineering Innovation
Overview
AVEVA World
Blog
Customer Stories
Events
News Centre
Solutions and Product Brochures
Videos
Webinars
White Papers and Infographics
Services & Support
Supporting You at Every Stage of Your Asset's Life Cycle
Overview
AVEVA Experience
AVEVA Product Support
AVEVA Product Training
Policies and Compliance
Contact Us
The Big Picture, in Great Detail
For every asset you manage, we help you control change and complexity, by visualising the truth.
Watch our video
Watch our video
Take Control
Every step of an asset’s life cycle is an opportunity to work faster, act smarter, reduce risk and save costs.
4000+
Successful customers. You're in good company.
5x
Faster project start-up and implementation.
50%
Shorter project execution.
Name Your Asset
Learn how businesses like yours leveraged our technology to deliver engineering, construction and operational excellence.
icon down
Marine
Create all sizes of marine vessels faster and manage offshore effectively with a complete solution tailored to your specific needs.
Read More
Plant
Collaboration between Owner Operators and EPCs is seamless when systems are compliant, reliable and efficient.
For EPCs
For OOs
Building & Infrastructure
Infrastructure complexity needn't mean poor performance. Changes needn’t mean cost overruns. See how you can take control.
Start Today
The Power to Shape Your World
Make informed, confident decisions at every stage of the project life cycle with our Digital Asset Approach.
Visualise the truth by creating a searchable digital version of your physical asset.
icon
Engineering & Design
Allow for effective collaboration, increase confidence in engineering decisions, and manage change fast.
icon
Go Deeper
Engineering & Design
Your Design­ Phase Challenges
Costly multiple design iterations.
Inconsistent documents and drawings.
Time-consuming creation and output of deliverables.
Ineffective construction rework.
Critical information stuck in siloed design and engineering systems.
Lack of trust in existing asset conditions.
Your Digital Asset Approach Advantages
All collaborators access and update one integrated system.
Change is managed quickly to avoid repeated iterations.
Achieve zero-clash modelling including laser data directly within the design.
Start-up faster and reduce rework with streamlined design processes.
Understand the true conditions of existing assets to make right-first-time engineering choices.
Ensure compliance with accurate reporting throughout the project.
Give fast, easy but controlled access to the Digital Asset to project stakeholders everywhere.
x
icon
Procure
Keep information consistent across global teams, log details and specs easily to avoid disputes and construction errors.
icon
Go Deeper
Procure
Your Procurement­ Phase Challenges
Teams spread across various regions, projects or locations that all need to be kept up to date.
Differences in material specifications across project tools.
Specifications held in various catalogues and systems.
Missing or overly complex data on existing conditions causes the design or procurement of incorrect materials, results in rework, delays and lost margin.
Minimal or non-optimal tender and bid management processes result in further avoidable delays.
Your Digital Asset Approach Advantages
Ensure component data is consistent across Engineering, Design, Materials Management and Procurement.
Define and control materials iteratively to avoid rework.
Drive quality improvement through design and build; increasing consistency of information, reducing cost of addressing the impact of change.
Share procurement contract management details within a centralised system to avoid disputes.
x
icon
Build
Increase the transparency of your construction process with integration at all levels of the workforce, from planning to installation.
icon
Go Deeper
Build
Your Build Phase Challenges
Up to 60% of a craftsman’s day is wasted waiting, travelling, and searching for materials.
Construction managers lack a complete view of available people, materials and equipment.
Disconnect between high-level project planning and individual work packages causes confusion.
Changes to materials availability or construction plans require extensive manual rescheduling.
Visibility of work completed to date is limited.
Your Digital Asset Approach Advantages
Provide managers better control through integrated workforce planning.
Have the right resources and the right materials in place to maximise time.
Accommodate changes easily and reorganise work packages without clashes.
Create an efficient, predictable and transparent construction process.
Manage people, materials and equipment seamlessly throughout the entire build life cycle.
Identify and manage change early on with stakeholder cooperation.
Integrate laser data into designs to reduce clashes and errors on site to almost nil.
Be aware of problems early on with early-warning indicators, minimising cost and schedule over-runs.
Lower costs due to to less rework, along with accurate pre-invoice verification between contractors, engineers and project management.
x
Handover
Save time during familiarisation, reduce costs of Information Management and streamline information validation.
Go Deeper
Handover
Your Handover ­Phase Challenges
Time-consuming validation of all  incoming engineering master data from EPCs and subcontractors.
All information must be checked for accuracy, reliability and consistency, ensuring operational compliance before use.
Information must be reformatted to fit with CMMS/EAM and operations systems.
Inconsistent or missing information can mean FMECA, Operational Risk Assessment, Preventive Maintenance programme development, HSE planning, permitting and even start-up are all delayed.
Inconsistencies in critical equipment data can impact ramp-up to full production capacity.
There is little context for correlating the finished asset with 1D and 2D information.
Time-consuming and expensive disputes can arise from a lack of auditability of contract change.
Your Digital Asset Approach Advantages
Streamline project handover from the EPC-managed CAPEX phase to commissioning and start-up phases.
Reduce costs of information handover management to near zero.
Automatically validate all engineering information for consistency and compliance with contractually-defined information standards.
Easily map information to operations systems for faster commissioning and start-up.
Contextualise information within the 3D world, saving invaluable time during familiarisation.
Solve disputes thanks to full transparency and auditability of change orders, payment verification and milestone achievements.
x
icon
Operate
Minimise operational risk, improve change management and increase asset intelligence.
icon
Go Deeper
Operate
Your Operate ­Phase Challenges
Constant changes to the physical asset need to be captured.
Asset information sources are no longer trustworthy – meaning added risk to production outputs.
An increased threat of non-compliance, safety incidents and unplanned downtime.
Overlapping maintenance activities are not identified.
The need to provide critical 3D/locational context to operational intelligence in order to improve the efficiency and safety of all activity.
Your Digital Asset Approach Advantages
Minimise operational risk due to one easily-accessible contextual digital information source.
Manage change effectively, as the physical asset is synchronised with its digital equivalent.
Give operations engineers a clear picture of full information context for all decisions in both normal and critical situations.
Optimise reliability and production efficiency.
Decision Support capabilities make issue identification and resolution much simpler.
Hazards are reduced, with processes and assets more familiar thanks to immersive training simulations.
Asset data from multiple sources is translated into readily accessible and actionable information.
The Trusted Living Pointcloud enhances the digital asset, providing a 3D, fully-synchronised representation for optimal asset intelligence.
x
icon
Revamp/Refit
Make planning and implementing modification plans quicker and easier, track all engineering information in one place, and deploy more confidently.
icon
Go Deeper
Revamp/Refit
Your Revamp/Refit Phase Challenges
Creating usable reverse-engineered models of existing conditions is complex, and can involve multiple site visits.
Trusted project information is difficult to capture and share across disparate teams and contracting partners.
Errors impact fabrication and installation of new equipment and materials, causing delays and waste.
Your Digital Asset Approach Advantages
The system allows for quick creation of data-driven efficiency improvements and tracking operational compliance, saving project time overall.
Asset modifications can be easily planned and implemented, increasing efficiency and minimising downtime.
Modification of in-service assets is made easier by creating, managing and tracking all engineering information in one place.
The immersive 3D environment allows asset and project information to be integrated, so revamps can be planned and deployed confidently.
Contractual responsibilities are tracked and defined, increasing reliability and understanding of contract-based engineering.
x
YOUR DIGITAL ASSET
Contract Management
Information Management
Customer Successeswith AVEVA Technology
icon down
The Next 50 Years
Learn how ADMA-OPCO is using AVEVA software to future-proof its assets.
Start Now
Staying Out in Front
Discover how Atkins' migration to AVEVA Everything3D has helped extend Atkins competitive advantage.
Read Full Story
Explore More Success Stories
Trusted by Industry Leaders
4000 customers worldwide. You're in good company.
Almost every project was either early or on schedule, quality issues were consistently nil and this performance was achieved with a typical man-hour reduction of 20–30%.
Petrofac
We achieved around 18% direct savings in material costs on two major power projects.
BHEL Haridwar
This project, which would normally take 36 months from design to completion was fast-tracked in only 18 months. This was made possible by sharing the project using AVEVA Global.
Alliance Engineering
We are pleased to confirm our first project's critical path in the design process was reduced by 30%.
STX OSV
Design, Build, Operatewith Solutions that Work
icon down
Brownfield Modifications
Why build a new asset when you can maximise profit from your existing one? Streamline design and engineering for on-budget, on-schedule brownfield project execution.
Start Now
Progressive Handover
Eradicate the costs and time involved in the handover and validation of engineering master data.
Discover How
Electrical Engineering
Ensure designs are kept accurate throughout your project by effectively managing dispersed, multi-discipline teams and foreseeing change.
Easy. Learn How
Explore other solutions
Explore Your Industry
Discover AVEVA's Cloud Solution
AVEVA launches AVEVA Connect, no compromise delivery of the Digital Asset in the cloud.
Realise the benefits of Cloud Computing without compromising security, information integrity or user experience.
Discover More
Discover More
Take Control
For every asset you manage, we help you control change and complexity, by visualising the truth.
Reach Us
Contact
About
Investors
Partners
Learn More
Solutions
Products
News
Careers
Further Info
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
AVEVA Group plc
High Cross
Madingley Road
Cambridge
CB3 OHB, UK
Reg. No: 2937296
AVEVA has sales, support and development offices around the world.
Find an office
