Alasdair Cant & Associates -
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Alasdair Cant & Associates
What we do
About Us
Client list
Monthly Articles
Resources
Training
Management Training
Working with Teams
Drug and Alcohol
Motivational Interviewing
Coaching
Team Coaching
Facilitation
Team Development
Consultancy
Hints & Tips
Learning Games
Energisers
Learning Names
Energiser for a Whole Team Day
Contact Us
Alasdair Cant & Associates
Alasdair Cant & Associates help organisations and people grow.
Alasdair Cant & Associates aims to develop, inspire and support growth. Whatever the challenges you currently face in your working life, we can make a tangible difference.
Through expert training and coaching, we offer opportunities for high level professional development. Whether you need to improve communication or change deep-rooted behaviour in teams, we can help you. We have a wide range of courses available including managing change, dealing with difficulties, new to management and training the trainer. In addition, we provide specialist courses around substance misuse, motivational interviewing and brief interventions (alcohol). We also offer facilitation for team development days.
Our one-to-one coaching sessions provide an opportunity to reflect upon specific issues using a constructive and supportive approach with valuable results.
Can we help you grow?
about what we offer or to book a training course or coaching session, please contact General Manager, Helen Robbins on 01223 566794 or email helen@cambridgetraining.org
Tweets by @AlasdairCant
Alasdair Cant & Associates
TestimonialsThis was a stimulating and inspiring course for me. I found that it reminded me of some of the core areas and pleasures of my therapeutic working.
Occupational Therapist
I thought the course was very powerful and has given me tools to approach my job positively!
Social Worker
Fantastic course [Motivational Interviewing]! Totally relevant, understandable, practical and interesting. I look forward to using the skills and tools I learned. I was particularly impressed with Alasdair Cant. He is a brilliant trainer, knowledgeable, patient, engaging and clearly skilled at facilitating groups ensuring fun and learning.
Youth Justice Worker
Text Size:
M
L
X
Proudly powered by WordPress
