Artek is a small, well established Architectural and Construction Management Practice. Managing Director Stephen Brown holds Chartered Status in both respects
01223 519086
artekdesignhouse@aol.com
Home/
Who We Are/
Services/
Projects/
Clients/
Contact
Houses
Extensions
Residential Development
Commercial Development
Select a page:
Home
Who We Are
Services
Projects
·  Houses
·  Extensions
·  Residential Development
·  Commercial Development
Clients
Contact
Artek is a small, well established Architectural and Construction Management Practice. Managing Director Stephen Brown holds Chartered Status in both respects.
We have a solid client base, a firm financial foundation and a sound reputation for dealing with difficult planning matters and delivering successful developments. We have an established team of specialist professionals around us and can deliver a wide range of projects efficiently.
The vast majority of our work is repeat business or gained from referral. Most of our projects are undertaken for commercial clients for whom we have worked for many years. We do undertake domestic projects, house make overs, extensions and basements when the right criteria is met.
Our commercial work covers residential development in both urban and more rural locations, commercial space provision, remodelling, office fit out, clean rooms, light and heavy industrial requirements.
AREAS COVERED
Generally we would expect to cover a 100 mile radius of our Cambridge base, including Greater London and the East Anglian Coastline. Further afield for established clients or those with a portfolio of projects. We currently have projects in Teeside, Kent, Northamptonshire, Norfolk, Suffolk, Hertfordshire and of course Cambridgeshire.
WHAT WE DO
Residential developments of typically 1 to 100 homes in urban or more rural locations for established and properly financed individuals and established property development companies.
Stylish and superior Individual dwellings for discerning clients. Please note that we only offer a complete conception to completion service to householders or inexperienced individuals.
Residential make overs, extensions and basements for clients with in excess of £250,000 to spend on their project.
Listed building restoration, adaptation and conversion. We also undertake work in conservation areas.
Commercial projects in office accommodation, retail outlets, educational establishments, light/heavy industrial facilities, clean room and process environments.
A bespoke service can be provided to meet the clients specific needs.
Artek Design House Ltd
17 Topcliffe Way
Cambridge
CB1 8SJ
© Artek Design House Ltd 2015
Tel: 01223 519086
Fax: 01223 519101
Mobile: 07778 802702
Email: artekdesignhouse@aol.com
Site Map
Website by Catfish Web Design Cambridge
Cookies may have been placed on your computer to make this website better. Click here if you wish to change your cookie settings.
