Pembrokeshire Fungus Recording Network
Pembrokeshire Fungus Recording Network
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
Calendar
Links
Newsletters
Articles
Rusts
Techniques
Resources
Galleries
DJH 2016 Collection and Preservation of fungus voucher material
DJH 2017 Fluorescence microscopy
This entry was posted in Articles, Techniques on February 5, 2017 by David Harries.
RNS 2014 Rusts for biological control
RNS 2015 Uromyces muscari
RNS 2016 Puccinia umbilici
RNS AOC 2017 Puccinia longissima on Koeleria macrantha
RNS VT 2014 Uromyces muscari on Spring squill
This entry was posted in Articles, Rusts on February 5, 2017 by David Harries.
Two Dozen Common Fungi From Holyland Woods Nature Reserve.
Two Dozen Common Fungi from Holyland Woods Nature Reserve
See images »
This entry was posted in Galleries on January 12, 2017 by Dave Levell.
Lost and Found Project – Kew Visit
In November 2016, we had a visit from three experts (Paul Cannon, Martyn Ainsworth and Brian Douglas) from Kew Gardens to look for Lost and Found Fungi.
Highlights of the visit included finds, at Stackpole, of Entoloma bloxamii (Big blue pinkgill), Geoglossum atropurpureum (Dark purple earthtongue) and Hypocreopisis rhododendri (Hazel gloves) all of which are species of conservation concern in the UK.
Hypocreopisis rhododendri (Hazel gloves)
Dave Levell completed the collection by bringing along one of the Lost and Found target species, the smut Entyloma eryngii-maritimi, on a specimen of Sea Holly from Freshwater West – an excellent find.
Another find which was of particular interest to the group was a collection of blackening waxcaps consistent with the description for Hygrocybe olivaceonigra. The specimens were found on the dunes at Broadhaven (South) and retained by Kew for DNA testing. More info on the Lost & Found Project
Gyalolechia fulgens
Lichenochora epifulgens parasitising Gyalolechia fulgens
Looking at Lichens
Looking at Hazel gloves
This entry was posted in news on December 1, 2016 by admin.
Teifi Marshes foray (Cilgerran)
We had a fairly small but enthusiastic turnout for this foray on Guy Fawkes day 5th November, with some new faces /volunteers from the Wildlife Trust. Despite the woods being very dry, we found a nice range of species, including a new Pembrokeshire record for Gymnopus confluens.
Thanks to everyone who came!
Mike Karpaty going in deep
Group photo
Group photo
Group photo
Group photo
Fomes fomentarius - Hoof Fungus
Lepista nuda - Wood Blewitt
Lepista nuda - Wood Blewitt
Agaricus xanthodermus - Yellow Stainer
Clitocybe nebularis - Clouded Funnel
Amanita citrina - False Death cap
Gymnopus confluens
Gymnopus confluens
Cortinarius sp
Cortinarius sp - webcap showing its veil
This entry was posted in news on November 13, 2016 by admin.
Minwear PFRN Foray 30/10/16
A well-attended foray in excellent weather with lots of finds.Good to see some new faces (and some old ones!) – I have relatively few photos, as I was trying to ID records in the field, so welcome any more photos, please send to adam@pembsfungi.org.uk
Stagshorn
Group photo
Lactarius blennius
Cobalt Crust
Group photo
Russula atropurpurea
Russula ochroleuca
Cobalt Crust
This entry was posted in news on November 2, 2016 by admin.
Deer Park Foray (Wildlife Trust)
A very nice foray on 30th October 2016 organised by the Wildlife Trust (Mid Pembs) led by John Steer and attended by Jane Hodges and Adam Pollard. Not as many species as usual for this time of year but more than was expected. We also found Meadow Waxcap, Snowy Waxcap and Hygocybe chlorophana (one of the yellow ones)
Parasol - Macrolepiota procera
Young Parasol
Puffball
Disc fungus on cowpat
Panaeolus acuminatus
Parrot Waxcap - Gliophorus psittacinus
Immature Mycena
Hygrocybe coccinea
Liberty Cap - Psilocybe semilanceata
Dermoloma cuneifolium
Dermoloma cuneifolium
Hygrocybe coccinea
Not a fungus, but always nice to see
This entry was posted in news on November 2, 2016 by admin.
Some fungi from Canaston Woods
Laccaria amethystina & Paxillus sp
Shaggy Inkcap
Candlesnuff fungus & White Saddle
Helvella crispa
Entoloma rhodopolium
Entoloma rhodopolium
Inocybe asterospora
Inocybe sindonia
Mycena rosea
Cortinarius subgen Telamonia sp
This entry was posted in news on October 20, 2016 by admin.
Orielton Foray for UK Fungus Day 2016
UKFD Foray at Orielton
Thanks for your support for the UKFD event on Saturday 8th October 2016.
Although fungi were far less readily found than in earlier years, there were some remarkable finds. I am working through the records and pictures and will circulate details as soon as I’ve got something assembled.
Clavaria amoenoides
Inocybe lilacina
The find of the pale cream club fungus, Clavaria amoenoides, on the grassland behind the house was very special – previously only 6 confirmed UK records (2 of these from Pembrokeshire).
Our visiting expert, Slavomir, was hoping to find a rare group of fungi called Fanvaults – and was not disappointed when a collection turned up alongside the woodland track. He later returned to the same place and found a further 6 collections!.  It seems likely that at least 3 of these will be new species for the UK – he was amazed to find so many in one spot. He is currently working on this group so it may be a year or so before the DNA is completed and analysed and the paper published. Orielton should feature prominently.
Entoloma politum
I think it will be fair to say that the Orielton visit has been the highlight of Slavomir’s visit to the UK.
Mycena pura
If you have any good pictures from the event you are happy to share, please send them to me and I will ensure Adam/Mike get a copies for the the website.
David Harries
This entry was posted in news on October 13, 2016 by admin.
Newsletter 3-2016 added
3-2016
This entry was posted in news on August 1, 2016 by David Harries.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Recent Posts
934
926
Two Dozen Common Fungi From Holyland Woods Nature Reserve.
Lost and Found Project – Kew Visit
Teifi Marshes foray (Cilgerran)
Upcoming Events
There are no upcoming events.
View Calendar
Add
Add to Timely Calendar
Add to Google
Add to Outlook
Add to Apple Calendar
Add to other calendar
Export to XML
Search for:
Site design PC Rescue
