Audio Analytic – Intelligent sound detection
Software Sensors
Uses
Technology
Software Sensors
Uses
Technology
Intelligent sound detectionEmbeddable Software Sensors for the Smart Home that react to a smoke alarm, window breakage, baby cry and more for your devices.
Try
Software Sensors
Range of uses
From home security and safety, to infant care, our products can inform, alert and track a wide range of sounds in real life environments.
Core and Custom Software Sensors
A portfolio of Sound Sensors including Glass Break, Baby Cry, Smoke Alarm and more, plus the ability to enable the system to detect custom sounds with a high degree of accuracy.
Easy-to-integrate technology
Supports your existing low cost microphone, with no additional hardware required. Our technology works on a wide range of architectures including ARM, X86, Windows, Linux, Android and more.
Flexible licensing
A wide range of licensing options, from a one-off royalty to recurrent revenue model giving you the flexibility you need.
The smartest audio Software Sensor
Driven by the largest datasets in the industry and deepest understanding of home and other acoustic environments.
23671233 seconds of audio processed by our technology around the world.
Simple and fast to integrate
End to end support
We help you create great products, through an end to end partnership that supports the complete lifecycle, from initial concept through testing to final and in-field upgrades, such as:
Device integration support
Flexible licensing model
Custom Software Sensor solutions
Growing number of Software Sensors.
Try
Find Out MoreAbout Us
Audio Analytic Labs
News
Press and Media
Careers
Contact
Patents
Board of Directors
Cookie Policy
UsesSmart Home
Home Security
Connected Speaker
Baby Monitors
Smoke Alarm Detection
Latest News
Audio Analytic partners with Angee to bring Artificial Audio Intelligence to the world’s first autonomous Home Security system
Audio Analytic showcases Artificial Audio Intelligence for Smart Home devices at CES 2017
AI company Audio Analytic closes $5.5m Series A round to meet Smart Home demand
Contact Us UK Headquarters
Audio Analytic Ltd.
t +44 1223 909 305
e info@audioanalytic.com
2nd Floor, 50 St Andrew's St
Cambridge CB2 3AH, UK
US Office
Audio Analytic
3505 El Camino Real, Palo Alto, CA 94306-2806, USA
© 2017 Audio Analytic - Intelligent sound detection. All Rights Reserved.
