Beacon Computer Technology
Home
About Us
Clients
Services
Approach
Methodology
Navigation Menu
Welcome to The Software Solutions Company
Home »
Beacon Computer Technology
Beacon issues new quarterly newsletter:
Inside this issue…
Front Page – Beacon kick-starts SharePoint Intranet and Knowledgebase replacement for Integralis
Featured Client – Global Broadcasting Organisation
Get the Knowledge – The Role of a Business Analyst
Latest Beacon News – New Team Members
Integralis Case Study
Beacon kick-starts SharePoint Intranet and Knowledgebase replacement
Integralis is Europe’s Leading Security Systems Integrator and the Trusted Security Partner for over 50% of the FTSE 100. Using Microsoft Office SharePoint Services (MOSS), Beacon worked alongside Integralis to implement a knowledgebase and collaboration portal that ensures content is instantly available to the business and provides immediate value to the organisation.
What our customers say about us …
“Beacon have been a very important part of this project and have helped steer us through its first phase on schedule and on budget.”
Stephen Roberts, Group Marketing Coordinator, Integralis
Professional team at your Service
As a project and skills-based company, one of our key strengths is our team-based approach. We are a people business in which teamwork and long-term continuity play a very important part. Beacon’s staff are selected not only for their experience and qualifications, but also on their attitude towards client service, quality and teamwork.
Services you could depend on
We provide a comprehensive range of services to help transform an organisation’s business-critical processes, from initial consultancy, design, development, deployment and support of the software solution through to professional services such as temporary contract technical staff and Internet hosting.
Guaranteed added value
As a solutions provider with more than 26 years in the software business, we have built a reputation in delivering value-added bespoke solutions to some of the UK’s leading organisations across a wide range of business sectors
Support you can Trust
Beacon has an exceptional record in developing bespoke solutions on time, within agreed budgets and to required quality levels, which are often highly technical but always user-friendly. This success is reflected by a high proportion of our clients returning time and time again with new and repeat commissions.
Document and Content Management
Using SharePoint to implement your enterpise content management solution
Systems Integration and Development
Developing solutions using the latest toolsets and techniques
Cloud Solutions
Build, host and scale applications in Microsoft datacenters.
Business Intelligence
Business Intelligence
Best of breed solution on Microsoft technology stack.
Professional Services
Providing professional resources for your software design, development and systems integration projects
Agile Development
The use of flexible development and management methodologies that ensure we exceed your expectations.
Support
Providing the right technical support for the software we deliver.
Latest Developments
Microsoft continues to innovate in its platform and invests significantly in making those platforms useful across all devices & interfaces
Object-Oriented Software
Software Solutions Framework
Professional Services
Systems Integration
Software Services
www.beacon-ct.co.uk | Contact Us
