Blendology | Interactive Event Solutions
Toggle navigation
Login
Search for event attended
Help
Contact Us
Events
Blendology
Professional networking redefined
Latest from Blendology:
Blendology Awarded Horizon 2020 ‘Seal of Excellence’
Posted
in
News
on Feb 04, 2016
Blendology was awarded the Phase 1 SME Instrument Grant for Business Innovation earlier this year, and we are delighted to announce that we have also recently
been awarded the Horizon 2020 ‘Seal of Excellence’, as our proposal exceeded all evaluation thresholds.
The Horizon 2020 ‘Seal of Excellence’ certificate will help Blendology in seeking further non-diluitive under other EU Instruments, alongside our SME Instrument application.
The SME Instrument allows EU based Small and Medium-sized Enterprises get EU funding and support for innovation projects that will help them establish, grow and e...
1
2
3
Next →
Blendology’s OneTap patented technology allows people to connect seamlessly with a simple tap
OUR TECHNOLOGY
Seamless and automatic
Our patented OneTap technology is changing they way we interact with people.
No more missed connections. No more clutter. Blendology lets you keep track of who you meet and when you meet them. Instantly.
WHO
we have worked with
Events
Networking
Business networking, industry-specific speaking engagements
Exhibitions
Trade, consumer, design showcases
Education
Job fairs, higher education events, research seminars and presentations, graduate recruitment fairs
Charities
Fundraising events, charity challenges
Conferences
Meetings, seminars, forums, conventions, symposiums
How Blendology Works
Tap
A simple tap! Lights and a buzz confirm your real-time connections
Search
Search and login to current or previous events
Access
View your real-time Blendology timeline to display all of your connections
Support
Contact the help centre
Book
Host or register for a succesful Blendology powered event
BECOME A PART OF BLENDOLOGY’S GROWING COMMUNITY
Connecting has never been easier
69,312
Delegates
750,771
Taps
266
Events
16
Countries
What our clients say about Blendology
"Blendology was excellent – adding value to everyone, especially exhibitors and a real aid to networking"
"Blendology’s ingenious oneTap badges
proved to be a great talking point and were an immense success at
breaking down barriers and encouraging interactions among attendees."
"Pickled Egg couldn’t have been more proud and we are definitely going
to be implementing this service across all future events whereby we need to
manage delegate registrations on-site."
"Blendology helped EASME bring together more than 800 at the Enterprise Europe Network Annual Conference 2015 where old and new partners happily tapped
away due to the ingenuity of the oneTap networking badge.
"The event was excellent and we were very pleased with the innovative networking solutions provided by Blendology"
"We had a fantastic time using Blendology for our event and the team was simply great. Blendology made networking easy and fun in one tap!”
"The interactive tap-to-connect technology provided a seamless solution for our delegates to network throughout the Future of Wireless International Conference - after all, that’s what a conference is for! Networking is key and the Blendology badges facilitated that no end."
"There is no doubt that Blendology saved us time, stress and gave us a piece of technology that worked amazingly well.
Everyone had fun, tapping their badges and making new contacts. I look forward to working with you again.”
"Jenny Bailey, Marketing Exec, Agile Business Conference”
Sign up to our newsletter
Latest News
Blendology Awarded Horizon 2020 ‘Seal of Excellence’
Posted
in
News
on Feb 04, 2016
Blendology was awarded the Phase 1 SME Instrument Grant for Business Innovation earlier this year, and we are delighted to announce that we have also recently
been awarded the Horizon 2020 ‘Seal of Excellence’, as our proposal exceeded all evaluation thresholds.
The Horizon 2020 ‘Seal of Excellence’ certificate will help Blendology in seeking further non-diluitive under other EU Instruments, alongside our SME Instrument application.
The SME Instrument allows EU based Small and Medium-sized Enterprises get EU funding and support for innovation projects that will help them establish, grow and e...
Blendology Launches New Ticketing Solution
Posted
in
News
on Jan 01, 2016
Blendology is pleased to announce the launch of its' new online Event Ticketing and Registration System. This is a free service for all customers using Blendology badges where there is no charge for admission, or is charged at a small percentage of the final ticket price for paid for events.
This new system provides Event Organisers with the ability setup an event and create tickets for admission. Delegates can then purchase and register for those tickets. The system offers seamless integration with the Delegate's profile and the creation of their badge. Upon registering for an event, delegate...
1
2
Next →
Connect With Us
About   Careers   Partnerships
News   Privacy   Contact
© 2017 Blendology
