The Society of Ploughmen
Membership & enquiries call 01302 852469
MenuAbout Us
History of the Plough
British National Ploughing Championships
JoinEvents
2016 World & British Ploughing
Sponsors
67th British National Ploughing Championships
Results
World Ploughing Contests
European Ploughing Championships
British National Ploughing Championships
2016
UK MatchesAcademyShop
UK Ploughing Matches
Ploughing matches are held on a local level throughout the country - find ploughing matches with our match calendar.
World Ploughing 2016
Held at Crockey Hill, near York in 2016
-
Click for details
British National Ploughing Championships & Country Festival
Held in a different part of the country each year.
In 2017 it will be held at Bishops Lydeard, Taunton, Somerset
Aims
The Society is a registered charity run by volunteers from the farming community. We are a vibrant, thriving organisation and an influential member of the World Ploughing Organization.
More about the Society
Members
The Society of Ploughmen has more than 250 local ploughing societies affiliated to it and a membership of ploughmen and women, farming and countryside enthusiasts from all over the world.
Membership options
Sponsors
The Society of Ploughmen is a registered charity and works closely with all sponsors to formulate a package which best meets their objectives. We are grateful for all support.
Browse our sponsors
Society Objectives
“to promote and encourage the art, skill and science of ploughing the land”
Ploughing Events Across the UK
Ploughing matches are held across the UK and throughout the year. They offer the chance for both novice and experienced ploughmen and women to take part. It's also a fantastic day out for families and people who enjoy the countryside and rural living.
The British National Ploughing Championships
The high point of the British competition ploughing season is the annual British National Ploughing Championships. With classes for conventional, reversible and horse-drawn ploughs as well as vintage tractors and ploughs.
More about this event
Local Ploughing Matches
Newborough YFC
Collingham & District Agricultural Society
Wimborne St Giles Ploughing Match
South Yorkshire Charity Ploughing Match & Thorne Ploughing Match
View all matches
Ploughing Academy
Ploughing Courses
For novices or experienced ploughmen alike, our ploughing courses are held over 2 days and teach reversible and conventional ploughing for ploughmen and women of all ages.
Judges Seminars
Our seminars are designed to help judges work on the same level across the country. This makes the standard of judging less varied in the level of points awarded for different aspects
Find out more
About The Society of Ploughmen
The Society of Ploughmen was founded in 1972.
It is a registered charity run by volunteers from the farming community.
It is responsible for the organisation of the British National Ploughing Championships and for managing the England World and European Ploughing Teams.
Registered Charity No: 1062780
Get in Touch
The Society of Ploughmen Ltd, Quarry Farm, Loversall, Doncaster, South Yorkshire, DN11 9DH
01302 852469
info@ploughmen.co.uk
Copyright © 2017 The Society of Ploughmen. All rights reserved.
Privacy PolicyOur SponsorsFriends of the Society
Hand crafted by Exact Marketing
