Cambridge Capital Group ::
Private investment in Europe’s leading tech cluster
Home
Membership
Successful Exits
Criteria
About
About CCG
CCG International
The CCG Trust
Contact
Private investment in Europe’s leading tech cluster
Cambridge Capital Group is a leading business angel group of over 80 investors and private venture funds who
have been investing in hi-tech businesses and backing technology start-ups in the region since 2001.
How to Apply
Members have invested several million pounds in more than 50 live portfolio companies in Europe's leading technology cluster, Cambridge, London, Oxford: "The Golden Triangle". Membership is an application process, usually by way of introduction through existing members.
The Group is a Syndicate Member of the UK Business Angels Association and one of our members is the 2016 "Angel Investor of the Year".
We are a growing organisation offering a platform for private investors around the world to invest in the top European technology centre. Successes include Bookham Technology, nCipher, and AIM listings of ITM Power and Bango. More recently, portfolio company Phonetic Arts was acquired by Google in December 2010, and Ubisense listed on AIM in June 2011, giving attractive capital returns to our members. During 2016 members have already enjoyed three successful exits with Touchtype/Swiftkey being sold to Microsoft, Cambridge CMOS Sensors being sold to Austrian Microsystems (AMS), Expedeon merger with Sygnis AG and a fourth on the way.
News - Hover over article to read
December 2016												Fourth Portfolio Exit in 2016
CCG members are currently celebrating following the fourth announcement of a successful Portfolio Exit in 2016. Members invested in Oval Medical Technologies in 2010 after their first ever pitch to a group of angel investors. Oval has recently been sold to SMC.
October 2016												CCG International launch
CCG International was launched in 2015 as a forum for expatriate investors to access the CCG deal flow in Cambridge; we now have 30 international members based mainly in the Channel Islands. CCG takes promising investment opportunities and portfolio companies to the Channel Islands twice a year to pitch to our members on Jersey and Guernsey.
June 2016												Sale of portfolio company, Cambridge CMOS Sensors
The second exit of the year so far from the Cambridge Capital Group portfolio, sees Cambridge CMOS Sensors (CCMOSS) sold to Austrian Microsystems (ams), the manufacturer of high performance sensors. CCMOSS is a spinout from Cambridge University which has been developing micro hotplate structures for gas sensing and infrared applications.
CCG members invested in three funding rounds, led by Cambridge Enterprise, the tech transfer agency for the university, and earned an attractive multiple of capital invested from the all cash transaction.
March 2016												Cambridge Capital Group portfolio company sold to Microsoft
AI business Touchtype Limited, developer of Swiftkey, the world beating predictive keyboard app, has been acquired by Microsoft in a cash deal worth $250 million. Angel investors from Cambridge Capital Group enjoyed a high financial return of almost ten times their capital investment Members of Cambridge Capital Group had first invested in the business in 2011 after inviting it to pitch at quarterly investment event when it was a fledgling start-up, and continued to support the company in subsequent capital funding rounds alongside major institutional investors including Octopus and Index.
Sponsors
Entrepreneurs
Cambridge Capital Group invests in early stage opportunities - seed, start-up and early growth.
If you think your venture meets this criteria
Click here
Disclaimer
Cambridge Capital Limited T/A Cambridge Capital Group is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Cambridge Capital Group does not and will not give advice as to the merits of entering into any particular transaction. This communication is provided for information only and is not in any circumstances intended to constitute advice as to the merits of the recipient, or any other person buying, selling or subscribing for any investment or engaging in any other transaction. Any person seeking such advice should consult a person authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to give such advice. This communication is exempt from the general restriction (in section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) on the communication of invitations or inducements to engage in investment activity on the ground that it is made to a certified sophisticated investor or high net worth individual; and hence the content has not been approved by an authorised person.
Cambridge Capital Group - Private investment in Europe’s leading tech cluster
Address:
IdeaSpace, Hauser Forum
Entrepreneurship Centre
3 Charles Babbage Road
Cambridge, CB3 0GT
Phone: +44 (0)1223 969535
Email: Contact us
Cambridge Capital Group is a leading business angel group of over 80 investors and private venture funds who have been investing in hi-tech businesses and backing technology start-ups in the region since 2001.
Copyright © 2016 All Rights Reserved Cambridge Capital Group
Disclaimer
