Web Design Cambridge & Digital Marketing Agency
Portfolio
Clients
Museum
Services
About
Why Choose Us
The Studio
Jobs
Articles
Get in touch
MENU
Award Winning
Cambridge Web Design &
Digital Marketing Experts
We love helping people connect with customers online
A unique, multi-lingual project that sends us good karma and fills us with pride every time we work on it
A bright website update for this local Sixth Form college giving the in-house team a more focused system to use
A fully featured, responsive E-commerce magazine for brides-to-be and trade suppliers of this international manufacturer
An award winning website and intranet system promoting Cambridge Universities' 'Women Only' College
A visually striking design overhaul for their product design portfolio, services and company.
The Cambridge Web Design Agency
We love collaborating with clients to craft exceptional websites & brands
View our services
Browse Portfolio
Back
View Project
Next
View our portfolio
Explore our site
Portfolio
Services
About us
Articles
Get in touch
01223 232192
hello@chameleonstudios.co.uk
Get directions & Find us
A FULL SUITE OF WEB DESIGN SERVICES
Our creative and technical expertise brings your brand to life on the web.
Domains, Email & Hosting
Professional websites require a solid platform. We can help with all the technical aspects such as domain names, hosting and email solutions.
Workshops, Strategy & Marketing Plan
We listen, we discuss, we advise. Sounds obvious but we listen to your ideas, plans and objectives for your business.
Branding, Graphic Design & Illustration
Effective branding and engaging graphic design is the first thing your clients notice. Make sure you stand out from the crowd!
Responsive Web Design
We offer a full website planning and design service, taking your ideas and creating a stunning website to present your business.
Development, Programming & Tech
We are experienced at building and integrating web systems and services, ensuring seamless business operation.
Copywriting, Photography & Video
We can help you produce your content whether it be copywriting, photography and video production, we have you covered.
Social, Search and Email marketing
Marketing is crucial, we work with you to consolidate your brand across the whole range of online services.
Analytics, Reporting & Consultancy
We continue to work with our clients and their systems once the website is launched. Whether it be training, advice or technical support, we have you covered!
Strategy & Planning
We ‘partner’ with our clients and listen to your goals for your business. We then work together to tailor the project to your ambition, deadlines, budget and appetite for involvement.
Design & Production
Chameleon is a creative and technical agency. We custom design and build fully responsive websites in-house from the ground up so that your customers' experience is always great no matter what device they use.
Support & Consultancy
For us, signoff does not mean signout. We make sure you are happy keeping your site current. There is dedicated ongoing support of course but more than that we are always happy to offer friendly advice and a helping hand.
MORE ABOUT OUR SERVICES
WHY CHOOSE CHAMELEON STUDIOS?
Our clients choose us as much for our practical, flexible, can-do approach as for the work itself.
REAL EXPERIENCE
Established in 2004, Chameleon has a strong track record of working with organisations both large and small to deliver award winning work.
A combination of creative and technical expertise means you can rely on our team to take care of your project from start to finish.
We Take it Personally
Our websites are made with love by a small in-house team. You will be working directly with the members of our team - no middle man here.
We are proud to have won awards for our work, but even more rewarding is seeing the real results and positiive impact of the work.
WHAT OUR CLIENTS SAY
Anna Banks,Anatune
"Chameleon have been brilliant in planning and executing what was quite a challenging and technical brief. We are delighted with the finished result and the continuous support they provide."
Jeanette Ariano, Lucy Cavendish College
"I have worked alongside Chameleon Studios for three years on the Lucy Cavendish website... I could not recommend them highly enough"
Heather Chambers, Long Road Vice Principal
"Since going live, our governors, parents, teachers in our partner schools and students have commented on the site using words like 'Wow' and 'Fantastic'!"
William Dicks,Richard Designs
"We have worked with Chameleon Studios for over 5 years and in that time we have completed several projects, all of which have been completed on time and to our exacting specification."
MORE ABOUT CHAMELEON
NEED HELP PLANNING YOUR WEBSITE?
Download ‘Our 5 Top Tips for Creating an Engaging Website’ reference to help you plan for your new website.
DOWNLOAD THE PDF NOW
01223 232192
hello@chameleonstudios.co.uk
© 2004-2017
Chameleon Studios Ltd, 1 Coles Lane, Oakington, Cambridge
CB24 3BA
Company 05331771
VAT 854 2391 20
Cookies & Privacy
Terms of Use
Follow us on Linkedin Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook
Made with
in Cambridge
