Charles Boulton
Charles Boulton
Home
Technology
Innovation
Change
Previous Work
Great Innovators
About Me
I work in three general areas:
Technology Management: Managing technology and the capabilities it offers, strategically,
purposefully and effectively
Innovation Coaching: Improving effectiveness in steering and delivering innovation, continuously
Change Facilitation: Enabling and facilitating change by thoughtful and timely support
My clients are typically looking for ways to grow their business and increase its resilience. Some
are focused on technology, many on innovating successfully and all face the question of managing
change. My contribution leads to new strategies, new products and services, new business models
and more effective and efficient ways of working.
My style of working is as much coaching as consulting because I work alongside my clients, be they
individuals or teams. As well as addressing the particular topic we also build capability and capacity,
flexibility and resilience. Working together we seek more than just answers - we build individual
and organisational capability to manage technology, innovation and change more effectively and
efficiently. We focus on results and not on reports.
Often I am asked to provide a different and independent perspective and focus, for clients with
complex and critical issues subject to tight timescales, typically working with small internal teams or
taskforces. The outcome is decisive action.
I work for both large and small companies and organisations, across many sectors. I have
worked with small entrepreneurial teams, with individual board members trying to accelerate
their companies, and with large teams of product/brand/service managers and developers.
Together we have generated new products and services, new business processes and new business
models.
For specific examples see 'Projects'.
I'm always on the lookout for examples of different ways of thinking that might act as a stimulus in
our work. Such examples might be drawn from history and from any sector and often illustrate new
directions in which to look. For examples see 'Great Innovators'.
+44 (0)7956 696932
+44 (0)1440 783523
© Charles Boulton 2012. All Rights Reserved. Webrex Web Design
