ChinaEuBiz
Search this site
HomeClient ServicesBenefits for Our ClientsCase StudiesContact UsEvents, Useful Documents, Links
HomeGalleryServices[Untitled][Untitled]ContactEvents & Useful Information
Home
In 2011 the EU exported 136.2bn Euro worth of goods to China, making up 8.9% of the total extra-EU trade.In 2011 China invested more than 8 bn Euros in Western Europe - triple the figure of 2009.18%, the average year on year growth of EU exports to China in the last three years.By 2025 China will become the world’s third largest consumer economy, after Japan and the United States.French wine exports to mainland China increased by 75.5% in value in 2011.                                 WELCOME! WE CAN HELP GROW YOUR BUSINESS!
If you are a European/EU SME (B2B or B2C) wanting to set-up business in China, sell products there, or if you want to source products from China, you've come to the right place. We can help you to make appropriate decisions, and provide the required support.If you are a Chinese company wanting to do set-up business in Europe/the EU, sell products there, or source products from Europe, then you have come to the right place. We can help you in many ways too!!We specialise in China - EU trade, sourcing, business set-up and much more!! Please see our Client Services web page for more details.China has consolidated its meteoric
rise in the global economic rankings, and is undoubtedly an economic superpower
that Europe has to reckon with. This is starkly illustrated by the pictures of Shanghai on the left - taken in 1990 and in 2010. And although its’ growth has been impressive,
China must continue to seek further growth opportunities in other world
economies.Thus entry to each other’s markets,
partnerships, trade and investment between China and Europe all offer extremely
attractive opportunities for both Chinese and European companies.If your Company - in China or in Europe - is not already taking advantage of this phenomenon, it is time to talk to us.
The sole purpose of
the existence of China Europe Business, and the driving force in all that
we do – is to encourage, initiate, promote, assist, support, advise and provide a broad range of practical help to - Chinese and European companies to grow their businesses in each other's territories.Our focus is on providing a broad range of practical
assistance and support to:
1.       UK, French and other European companies of all sizes and sectors to set-up (via agents, distributors, FICE, WOFE, JV etc.), and grow business, in China.
2.      Chinese companies of all sizes and sectors to set-up, and grow business, in the UK, France and elsewhere in Europe.
China Europe Business (ChinaEu)
comprises of individuals who know the Chinese, and the European, business
environments - the language, geography, legal entities, culture, contractual and commercial issues, methods/ approaches to business, Intellectual
Property, relevant contacts, the business landscape, market knowledge and
experience, marketing strategies and potential target customer segments and/or
agents/ distributors. Thus we can assist right from the
start of exploratory initial discussions, market information/evaluation,
setting up of a legal entity, establishing an office (if required) in an
appropriate location, recruitment of staff, introduction to relevant contacts,
marketing strategy/activities, sales, representation at events and exhibitions,
commercial aspects etc. - all the activities required to win customers and gain revenues.We appreciate the
importance of speed to market (consumer or B2B) for our client companies, and
effectiveness of delivery. We will advise, guide, discuss, consult, execute
specific agreed action plans and put you in touch with relevant contacts, so
that you can rapidly make the right decisions for your business.COPYRIGHT CHINA EUROPE BUSINESS 2010 - 2013
Find more themes at themeshop.exigo.be.
Report Abuse|Powered By Google Sites
