Meetings and Conferences in Cambridge | Meet Cambridge
Menu
Menu Close
Venues
Enquire
About Us
About Cambridge
Languages
Languages Close
English
French
German
Hindi
Spanish
Japanese
Chinese, Mandarin
Italian
Dutch
Russian
Looking for a College, a Unique Event Space
or a Hotel in or Near Cambridge?
Find The Best Venues For Your Event
Event Type
All event types
Room Hire
Accommodation
Residential Events
Day Meetings
Dining and Special Occasions
Venue Type
All venue types
Academic
Hotels / Unique Venue
Quick search
World-famous Academic Venues
Hotels and Unique Properties in Cambridge and Beyond
Acres of Gardens and Green Space
Historic Streets Full of Charm
Why Choose Meet Cambridge?
We are the experts and we're here to help you deliver an exceptional event experience.
We offer a suite of bureau services and a single point of contact for an incredible portfolio of venues at the University of Cambridge, the Cambridge Colleges, hotels and other wonderful, unique properties in the city and beyond.
Read More
Accommodation
Day Meetings
Dining and Special Occasions
Residential Events
Room Hire
Weddings
Let Us Find Your Perfect Venue...
"This is the third year running we have used Conference Cambridge, and we're very happy with the response and service. Thank you!"
Jo Coombs, Argon Design
Featured Venues
Gonville & Caius College
The College has beautiful buildings around the Old Courts in the city centre, as well as modern en suite accommodation set in extensive gardens just over the river at its West Road site. The College can offer meeting space for up to 120 delegates in the modern Stephen Hawking Building, with full AV facilities available, or traditional rooms at the Old Courts...
All Venues
How We Can Help
Agents and Professional Conference Organisers (PCOs)
A specialist service for agencies and PCOs looking for venues in and around the city.
Associations and Societies
Expert advice and support for associations and societies for conferences and events.
B&B in Cambridge Colleges
Why not have the unique experience of staying in College accommodation when you visit Cambridge?
Large Events
A free administration service, support and a single point of contact for large events.
Residential Schools, Summer Schools and Group Travel
We offer the perfect solution to finding central, yet affordable accommodation in Cambridge.
About Cambridge
Cambridge is one of the best small cities in the UK, just 60 miles north of London.
It's home to the world-famous University of Cambridge, its Colleges, stunning architecture, superb venues, a vibrant cultural scene and acres of green space.
Cambridge has been at the centre of world-changing discoveries for centuries.
Today it boasts two universities and a progressive and diverse industry landscape.
The city is an important centre of enterprise, leading the way in innovation, research, science and technology.
More About Cambridge
I just wanted to let you know that I had a really good response to my enquiry. I will definitely be using Conference Cambridge again in the future, as it was refreshing to get such an amazing response.
Nikki Morton, PLOS
Sign Up For Our Newsletter
Sign up
The information which you give when signing up to our e-newsletter will be used in accordance with the data protection Act 1998. Read the Meet Cambridge
Full Privacy Policy for more information.
Sitemap
Our Services
Testimonials
Press
Contact Us
Blog
More Information
Residential Schools, Summer Schools and Group Travel
Agencies & PCOs
Associations and Societies
Large Events
B&B in Cambridge Colleges
Weddings
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
© 2016 Meet Cambridge
+44 (0)1223 768740 Registered in England.
Registered Number: 06960613
Privacy Policy
