Cordic | The Best Booking and Despatch System | Data Despatch and GPS Tracking systems for Taxi and Courier Services
Home
About
Careers
Taxi
Courier
Demo
News
Downloads
Contact Us
MARKET LEADINGDATA DESPATCH
READ MORE
Our taxi and private hire data despatch software helps your business increase profitability by improving productivity and service.
Tap into an extensive networkof integration partners
VIEW OUR JOBS
DEMANDINGEXCELLENCE?
FIND OUT MORE
Our Support Team are World Class. We hire the best and our customers agree!
DATA DESPATCH
Our leading booking and despatch solution is the
most advanced, complete, reliable, and cost-effective taxi and private hire data despatch system available on the market
today...
For more on Booking and Despatch click here
DRIVER BENEFITS
Drivers
love a system which can be used with a minimum of training and that can help them maximise their earning potential by reducing fuel and vehicle costs...
For more on
Driver benefits click here
ACCOUNTS
With one click of the mouse you can print all invoices due. You can also print credit notes, receipts, balance summaries,
payment slips and see a complete history of transactions...
For more on Accounts and Billing click here
NEWS
01.02.16 New jobs at Cordic
17.08.15 Cordic conquer the three peaks challenge
18.02.15 Cordic collaboration with Taxi Butler speeds up bookings
04.02.15 Cabfind.com grows network through partnership with Cordic
More News & Events
DEVELOPMENT
Annually we invest over £1million in research and development. We are committed to delivering leading edge solutions for the taxi and private hire market, providing our customers with a rock-solid product to help them drive their business forward.
For more about our Research and Development click here
MULTI-FLEET
The cPAQ solution allows your business to consolidate the acquired fleet into your existing business whilst still retaining the individuality of each company and operating using a single despatch system - cPAQ.
To learn about Cordic's Mult-Fleet Support click here
SUPPORT
We pride ourselves on delivering world-class technical support, our team of highly trained individuals provide system support to our customers via telephone, email and remote support...
For more about our World Class Support click here
TESTIMONIALS
"Having used other system suppliers in the past it was vital to the long-term strategy of A&B that we purchased and installed the most flexible feature packed product on the market"
More Customer Testimonials
COMPANY
TAXI
BOOKING JOBS
home
booking
IVR
about
despatch
Text Booking
news
driver
Web Booker
r&d
accounts
Smart Booker 2
training
multi-fleet
Kiosk Booker
support
eco-friendly
Mobile Booker
careers
demo
Chip & PIN
contact
downloads
Credit Card
blog
testimonials
Web Reporter
T: 01954 233 233 E: sales@cordic.com
german site
Cordic National Gateway
Progress House, Rowles Way, Swavesey, Cambridge CB24 4UG
Taxi Butler
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Disclaimer | © Cordic Ltd 2015
