Commercial Property Advisor, Science Parks, R&D | Creative Places
Toggle navigation
Services
Agency
Consultancy
Team
Jonathan Burroughs
John Sommerville
Liam Nicholls
Our Work
Projects
Clients
Thinking
Articles
Blogs
News
Get in Touch
+44 (0)1223 359 840
Welcome toCreative Places
Welcome to Creative Places
We are a leading commercial property advisor. Our expert knowledge allows us to help our clients plan, create, manage and invest in collaborative places for people involved with research, R&D, the creative industries and innovation. Places such as science and research parks, medical research campuses and technology centres. In a nutshell, we help create and shape business environments that enhance innovation.
Our strategic approach focusses on delivering maximum impact for all
Our strategic approachfocusses on deliveringmaximum impact for all
We recognise that these environments are home to complex ecosystems where truly understanding and addressing the objectives of all stakeholders is key to success. We approach every project by exploring these objectives; using them to inform a coherent strategy, before working together to implement specific actions that deliver successful outcomes.
We have two core service areas, consultancy and agency
We have two core serviceareas, consultancy andagency
Our consultancy business advises clients on the creation of optimal environments – combining the appropriate mix of services, facilities and activities to attract and establish communities that thrive. In parallel, our agency business creates demand, facilitates strong joint venture partnerships and acts for investors.
Consultancy
Agency
Our team is dedicated to science, technology and innovation environments
Our team is dedicated to science, technology and innovation environments
We are a team of commercial property experts with many years experience within the R&D, life science, technology, creative and educational sectors. Together we can help you really understand all the factors, nuances and subtleties that make spaces work - where research excellence and impact, innovation and enterprise can all be achieved – in a highly productive fashion.
Jonathan Burroughs, CEO
Jonathan works closely with academics, hospital leadership teams, government bodies, commercial developers and investors – understanding objectives and advising on appropriate strategies.
John Sommerville, Managing Partner
John has extensive expertise in the value of R&D land and property and the ways in which viability can be maximised, as well as hands on experience in letting and marketing property for the sector.
Liam Nicholls, Partner
Liam specialises in financial appraisals and asset management and is an experienced and confident facilitator of innovation and strategy workshops for large corporate occupiers.
We have worked on leading developments across the UK
We have worked on leading developments across the UK
We continue to be the leading advisor and agent on some of the most prestigious and high profile R&D property developments, science parks and biomedical campuses within the UK.  See below and click for more projects here.
Cambridge Biomedical Campus
Citylabs Manchester
Cell Therapy Catapult
Our opinions are helping to shape our industry
Our opinions are helping toshape our industry
We’re curious about the issues and influences shaping our industry and strive to share our thinking, supported by case studies and real life examples, to help drive better results.
Open Innovation 29-07-15
Get in touch
Telephone:+44 (0)1223 359 840
Email:enquiries@creativeplaces.com
Address:3 King's ParadeCambridgeCB2 1SJ
Sign up
We send out our opinion pieces by email as soon as they are published.
If you would like to be added to our mailing list please submit your details here.
Your name
Your company
Email address
Thank You
Explore Creative Places
ServicesTeamOur WorkThinkingGet in Touch
AgencyConsultancyJonathan BurroughsJohn SommervilleCase StudiesClients
ArticlesBlogsNewsCookie Policy
Designed by Limewash
