Atlantic Salmon Trust
DONATE HERE
BECOME A FRIEND
ONLINE AUCTION
Newsletter Signup
Course Log-in
Toggle navigation
Home
The AST
AST Projects
Research
Knowledge Zone
Events
Ambassadors
Gallery
Support Us
Contact Us
50th Anniversary Online Auction
Our auction goes live on 14th January 2017 and will run until 14th February 2017.
Learn more
From Headwater to Headland
Improving smolt survival in rivers and estuaries. 14th and 15th March 2017.
Conference registration now open!
Learn more
The Atlantic Salmon Trust
One Trust: One Goal To Save the Atlantic Salmon
Learn more
50th Anniversary Dinner
Join us on the 25th of May 2017 for our 50th Anniversary Celebration.
Learn more
Salmonids in the Floods
With the catastrophic flooding during the winter of 2015/16 the AST has received many enquiries regarding the impact of flooding on rivers and the production of salmon and sea trout.
Learn more
Previous
Next
Welcome
The Atlantic Salmon Trust was Founded in 1967 in response to growing concerns about over exploitation of wild
salmon in the Faroes and Greenland Coastal waters.
Since then we have acquired a reputation as an influential advocate for salmon conservation within the United
Kingdom. Traditionally our work has been in the freshwater environment, but more recently we have focused on the
lives of wild salmon at sea.
Read more
Latest News
Last Day of the AST Online Auction!
Tuesday, February 14, 2017
It is the last day of the online auction, and the pace is picking up! Thank you all so much! There’s a staggered closing of lots which starts at 12 midday on the 14th Feb and runs until c. 6.30pm on the 15th Feb. Every lot shows its closing time, and time left to bid. The generous support of our donors and the value of their donations is of great importance to the AST in funding our projects and allowing us to help fund salmon and sea trout research undertaken by others (inc. local Fisheries Trusts). In some previous years there has been a further discounting of unsold lots after the auction has closed. This will NOT take place this year. So please don’t wait. The starting prices are around 2/3rds of the guide value of the lot and there are opportunities to get great value on your fishing and shooting whilst supporting the work of the Trust. Please contact the Trust if you missed the opportunity to bid before a lot closed, it may be possible to purchase an unsold at the starting price, but it will not be reduced further. There is no obligation for us to do this and unsold lots may get held over to another event/purpose. SO if you have seen something you like, now is the time to bid, you may have less than 2 hrs left!!
CLICK HERE FOR THE ONLINE AUCTION
Read more
There’s still time to register for:
Friday, February 3, 2017
From Headwater to Headland: Improving smolt survival in rivers and estuaries
Tuesday, 14th and Wednesday, 15th March 2017, Berwick-Upon-Tweed
This important conference will look into the key issue of improving salmon and sea trout smolt survival during the critical early stages of their migration, in rivers and in estuaries. Speakers will present the latest research into the many factors that affect smolt survival, including predation, and discussion sessions will focus on identifying practical action that can be taken to reduce mortality and areas where more research is needed.
The number that can attend this event is limited, and places are going fast. To read more about the conference, and to register, click here.
Read more
Job Vacancy – Acoustic Tracking Programme Coordinator
Tuesday, January 31, 2017
The AST are seeking to employ a highly motivated programme coordinator with excellent people, organisation and presentation skills to head up their Salmonid Acoustic Tracking Programme. The job will involve liaising with organisations currently planning or undertaking Acoustic Tracking projects to facilitate maximising resources (financial and technical), co-ordination between projects and taking an overview of acoustic tracking projects to assist in providing a UK, and Ireland, picture of smolt migration and mortality pinch points.
Download the Job Description: AST Acoustic Tracking Programme Coordinator – Job Description Jan 2017
To apply for this job: Please send a covering letter and CV by email to director@atlanticsalmontrust.org
Closing date for applications: Friday 17th February
Read more
50th Anniversary Annual Online Auction 2017
Tuesday, January 17, 2017
The Atlantic Salmon Trust president Earl Percy invites you to bid for a host of unique sporting opportunities in the AST 50th Anniversary Annual Online Auction 2017.
Salmon carry information about the condition of the oceans right back to the rivers and the drastic decline in salmon numbers is symptomatic of widespread problems thousands of miles away.
We need to understand what is happening and initiate reforms that will save much more than just the Atlantic salmon.
Help us save the salmon and prevent a global ecological tragedy.
The Atlantic Salmon Trust’s 50th Anniversary annual online auction went live on 14th January 2017 and closes on 14th February 2017 with over 160 lots including UK and Overseas fishing, stalking and shooting and an eclectic selection of variety lots.
Stalking lots include roebuck in Perthshire, hind stalking lots in Argyll and shooting lots include driven woodcock shooting for a team of guns in Pembrokeshire.
With over 160 lots ranging from salmon fishing, wild sea trout, trout & grayling fishing, shooting & stalking and fishing equipment – this is probably the largest auction of its kind. There is sport to suit every taste and pocket, with starting bids ranging from £20 – £2,400.
Outstanding fishing lots include Norwegian Salmon fishing on the River Orkla, (Starting bid £2,400, Guide price £3,200) Birgham Dub on the Tweed (Start bid £375, Guide Price £500), Stobhall on the Tay (Start bid £435, Guide Price £585) and Park on the Dee (Starting bid £260, Guide Price £350). There are also some superb trout fishing lots on chalk streams and wild brown trout fishing, and a week fishing lochs on Islay including accommodation (Current bid £620, Guide Price £830).
All lots have been generously donated and the proceeds will allow the AST to continue to undertake and fund vital conservation research.
For full details of all lots on offer and instructions on how to register your bid visit:
auction.atlanticsalmontrust.org
Funds raised through the online auction go to support projects and research undertaken to protect and conserve wild Atlantic salmon and Sea trout. To find out more please visit the AST’s new website: www.atlanticsalmontrust.org
If you have registered to bid in our previous online auctions, you will be able to login using the same credentials this year.
Supporters who prefer not to use the internet can still take part. Please call us on 0131 221 6550 and we will post you a catalogue. You can then contact us with your bid(s) and we will do your bidding for you.
The Atlantic Salmon Trust
11 Rutland Square, Edinburgh, EH1 2AS
Telephone: 0131 221 6550
Email: info@atlanticsalmontrust.org
Read more
Policy and Research The job of the Trust is to show people how both species can be conserved and managed to enable their value to society to be realised sustainably. The Trust’s work concentrates on improving our knowledge of these fish, their habitats and their complex and fascinating life histories, and the threats to their survival. Until recently this knowledge was confined mainly to the freshwater aspects of their life cycle, but the AST is now focusing on the migration and marine phase of their life cycle.
Read more
Current Priorities As the UK's only charity whose work is devoted exclusively to the conservation of wild Atlantic salmon and sea trout, the AST's focus is on the whole lives of these fish, in both freshwater and marine environments. Our current priority is to find out why and where salmon and sea trout are dying and the AST is directing its focus on the migration of salmonids, and the lower river, coastal and marine environment.
Read more
Activities and Services The Trust facilitates research, undertakes projects, organises events and communicates its findings to anglers, fishery managers, owners and the public. To keep our Friends and Supporters informed the Trust will be publishing an annual report, issuing monthly news updates and news flashes and maintaining an up-to-date website.
Read more
Privacy Policies |
Contact Us
×
...
