bed and breakfast B&B organic farmhouse accommodation Wales
T: +44 (0)1239 851 914
Nantgwynfaen, Penrhiwllan Road, Croeslan, Llandysul, SA44 4SR
Ceredigion, West Wales
Home Page
Organic Farm Shop
Bed and Breakfast
Self Catering - Glamavan
Self Catering - Ty Mamgu Cabin
Games Room
Bespoke Furniture
Local Interest
Gallery
Guestbook
Access & Environmental Statements
Contact & Directions
“As I walked down the rough lane and saw the farm in the afternoon sun
for the first time, I knew my stay would be everything that I had hoped, and
so it turned out to be…”
Clive Walker, Derby
Croeso
Welcome to our
lovely farm.
Nantgwynfaen Organic Farm
Bottle Nose Dolphins, Cardigan Bay
Wales on two wheels
Shop
Specialists in Organic & Local Produce – a
True Taste of Wales
Bed and Breakfast
Furniture
Glamavan
Bed and breakfast farmhouse accommodation and organic
farm shop at
Nantgwynfaen our working organic farm, in West Wales.
In our farmhouse we serve organic local produce to our bed and
breakfast visitors, including our own free-range eggs, own recipe sausages, dry
cured bacon, homemade bread and marmalade, with local dairy produce.  With
crisp white cotton sheets, and freshly squeezed juice it will be your favourite
bed and breakfast in Wales.  We have an extensive bi-lingual breakfast menu with some local Welsh favourites.
Nantwgynfaen, certified by the Soil Association, is run in
accordance with organic standards. We keep poultry, sometimes pigs, and rent
the land organic farmers, Tom, Eva & Philip Cowcher who graze Welsh Black
cattle, and sheep.  As well as running our bed and breakfast, an organic farm
shop, and making bespoke
furniture, we also grow our own vegetables.  Visitors are
welcome to walk the farm - there are orchards, streams, amazing hedgerows and
wildlife - don’t miss the bluebells in May.  Buzzards and Red Kite fly
over the farmhouse and swallows swoop over the yard in summer – you can enjoy
bird watching even from the B&B window!  It is a very peaceful place,
and our traditional stone and slate farmhouse (built in 1840) provides relaxing
and comfortable holiday accommodation.  Ideally suited for couples and families,
there is something for everyone here – so don’t forget your wellies!
Our bed and breakfast is located centrally between Carmarthen,
Aberystwyth and Cardigan and provides an ideal base from which to explore the
local area.   Close to Llandysul, Newcastle Emlyn, Aberaeron,
Lampeter and the beautiful Cardigan Bay Coast famous for dolphins, seals,
puffins and spectacular scenery.  It’s cliff top walks and coastal paths
provide excellent walking holidays.  Sea kayak or canoe in the rivers,
fish the Teifi River, one of the richest rivers in Europe for trout and salmon,
or go sea fishing from New Quay – it is an angling paradise.  Is it fresh
sea bass, crab, lobster or mackerel for dinner?  Visit ancient Welsh
castles, absorb the history and culture, have a cycling holiday, or simply
relax on a sandy beach.
With a wealth of local produce there are many excellent places
to enjoy the local food of West Wales – that is if you have any room after your
breakfast!  You can of course have a candle lit dinner by the log burner
in our cosy farmhouse accommodation.  We place great emphasis on simply
cooked fresh local food – real home cooking.  We can cater for special
diets and foodies alike. We prepare picnics, and children’s meals, we have set
menus or you can tell us what you like.  Most of all, we want you to enjoy
your stay at our bed and breakfast and for it to be memorable too.
You are welcome to wonder around the farm, to browse in the
organic farm
shop, and view the bespoke
furniture being
manufactured in the workshops.  The farmhouse is full of our handmade
furniture – you can even sleep on it!
We look forward to welcoming you to our farm, Croeso!  Visit
us.
http://www.organicfarmwales.co.uk
email: amanda@organicfarmwales.co.uk
All text and images copyright Nantgwynfaen 2013
