Home
“They are an amazingly talented group of designers with a really solid approach to User Experience.”
Dr. David Prendergast,
Anthropologist,
Intel Labs
“Dovetailed have the ability to carry out well-designed high quality user centred evaluations of software tools…they are absolutely one of the best human-computer interaction researchers around.”
Prof. Steve Whittaker,
University of California
at Santa Cruz
User Experience Design
We are connectors, investigating human behaviour to enable you to deliver elegant and powerful products that respond to your customers’ wants and needs.
“Dovetailed has been a catalyst for change in bringing the User Experience concepts through into practical use in our design and development process…delivered new insight and behaviours as well as being instrumental in generating innovative designs for our products.”
Gavin Watton,
Head of Platform
Engineering & Design Management,
AVEVA
dovetailed
User experience design studio for physical and
digital interactions.
User Experience
Who we have worked with
Research
Research
We are unique, in being able to transform user and academic insight into disruptive, real-world design innovations.
Industrial Design
We are makers. We cover the full design cycle; ideas, prototyping, electronics to production ready products. We love working with global brands and start-ups.
Industrial Design
dovetailed
About usWe are a Cambridge UK based design studio and innovation lab. We love crafting engaging physical and digital experiences that evoke curiosity and change behaviour. Our team is highly multidisciplinary, which gives us the flexibility to really get to the core of any challenge and come up with the most suitable and elegant solution. We are naturals in the fields of user experience research, design, innovation and prototyping.
PressTo download our press pack click here
CareersWe are always on the look-out for passionate and talented people. If you are interested could you please send your CV and portfolio to hi@dovetailed.io
BlogTo visit our blog click here
19E Hills Road
Cambridge
CB2 1NW
+44 (0)1223 301 601
hi@dovetailed.io
Multi Disciplinary Team
We are a tight-knit team of designers, researchers, engineers and scientists.
Team
dovetailed
Copyright 2016 Dovetailed Limited. Registered in England and Wales. Company number 07578399.
Name:
Enter Name
Email:
Enter Email
Submitting Form...
The server encountered an error.
Thank you!
Message:
Enter Your Message
Get in touch
