EABASSOC Waterproofing and Building Products
Waterproofing and Building Materials
EAB Associates building and construction products are suitable for roof waterproofing, underground
damp-proofing, waterproofing of internal floors and walls, joint sealing
and caulking, protection of metal surfaces, and thermal insulation of
surfaces. We also supply admixtures for concrete and foaming agent for
making lightweight foamed concrete. Please see product datasheets below.
Liquid Waterproof Coatings
Instant Waterproof Coatings
Lightweight Foamed Concrete
Joint Sealants
EABASSOCBuildingProducts
Anti-Corrosion Coatings
Thermal Insulation Coatings
Fire Protection
Sheet Membranes
EAB ASSOCIATES - COMPANY ACTIVITIES
EAB Associates is a supplier of specialist, chemically based products for the waterproofing, sealing and general protection of buildings. Our products are used both in new construction and for maintenance work.
We always offer an excellent service from your initial request, to quotations, technical enquiries and the shipment and final handling of the order. We assure you of our best service at all times.
We have great expertise in exporting and export to various countries, mainly in the Middle East, Far East and the Indian Sub-Continent, and work with a variety of different organisations including government bodies, testing institutions, architects and engineers, specialist waterproofing contractors, and importers of construction materials.
We are able to give professional advice on most matters in the waterproofing field, either directly from our own knowledge and practical experience, or after reference to our many specialist contacts.
Our Waterproofing and Building Materials Range Inlcudes Products For:
roof waterproofing
underground damp-proofing
waterproofing of internal floors and walls
joint sealing and caulking
protection of metal surfaces
thermal insulation of surfaces
concrete repair
manufacture of lightweight foamed concrete
We Supply Specialist Building Materials Including:
liquid waterproof coatings based on bitumens and synthetic resins
sheet membranes / torching membranes
mastic sealants
elastomeric sealants and compounds
self adhesive membranes and tapes
anti-corrosion and thermal insulation coatings
admixtures for concrete
Typical Building and Construction Applications Include:
waterproofing flat concrete roofs in high rise buildings and apartment blocks
concrete floors in 'wet' areas, such as bathrooms, kitchens, washrooms and basements
building's foundations waterproofing
water storage tanks, reservoirs and pools
protection of sloping, corrugated factory roofs, made of metal or fibre-cement sheets
filling expansion joints in walls, floors and roadways
sealing bathroom fittings, window frames and for glazing
waterproofing walls, floors and roofs in underground car parks, basements, tunnels etc.
anti-rust protection of metal surfaces in exposed environments.
EAB ASSOCIATES Building and Construction Product Datasheets (pdf)
Lightweight Cellular Foamed Concrete Leaflet
Concrete Foaming Agent datasheet
Accelerator for Foamed Concrete datasheet
Void Filling Using Foamed Concrete
Roof Insulation Using Foamed Concrete
Bridge Abutment Using Foamed Concrete
Trench Reinstatement Using Foamed Concrete
RBC Aluminium Protective Coating datasheet
TPU Waterproofing Membrane datasheet
RBE Waterproof Coating datasheet
Spraytec Waterproof Membrane datasheet
SBS Torch Applied Waterproofing Membrane datasheet
APP Torch Applied Waterproofing Membrane datasheet
100PE Self-Adhesive Waterproofing Membrane datasheet
Elastotherm AC Thermal Insulation Coating datasheet
FR - Fire Resistant - Coating datasheet
BSP Anti-Corrosion Coating datasheet
BSP Liquid Anti-Corrosion Treatment datasheet
Waxproof Anti-Corrosion Coating datasheet
Lo-Mod Joint Sealant datasheet
Building Sealant Technical datasheet
Flashing Tape Technical datasheet
Product specifications may change from time to time. Please contact us for more information.
E-A-B AssociatesBayley-Edge Limited
3 Craven CourtCraven Road
Altrincham, Cheshire
WA14 5DY, ENGLAND
Building and Construction Products
Tel: +44 (0)161-926 9077
Fax: +44 (0)161-927 7718
TOP
Home Page
Product Digest
Frequently Asked Questions
About Us
Cookies & Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Contact Us
All Rights Reserved. Copyright © 1997 - 2017.
