Digital Marketing Agency - Web Development Ipswich | Free Rein
Feel free to talk to us:
01473 810002
| Contact Us
Home
About Us
Services
Case Studies
Portfolio
Community
Our News
Contact
WelcomeFree Rein is a web development and digital marketing agency giving the customer the ability to manage, monitor and take control of websites, email broadcast, online events and much more.We make life as easy as possible, offering a range of digital marketing solutions starting from very simple 'first steps' website, through developing interactive email marketing and powerful content management systems (CMS) to comprehensive campaign and bespoke systems.
G-Cloud supplierFree Rein is thrilled to be continuing in the G-Cloud 7 framework as well as the new Digital Outcomes and Specialists framework. This allows us to offer cloud services, solutions and specialists direct across all public sector organisations through the Digital Marketplace, with a very reduced pitching and contract process. Take a look at the range of services we have in the Digital Marketplace here.
Cyber Essentials AccreditationCyber Essentials provides organisations with basic protection from the most prevalent forms of cyber-attack. In particular, it focuses on threats which require low levels of attacker skill, and which are widely available online. Our accreditation demonstrates that we take cyber security seriously, and is mandatory for supplying Government contracts.You can see more details about the Cyber Essentials and download the requirements from the GOV.UK website
FR Forms has launched!The first release of FR Forms is here! The main admin site is now open for registrations. Why not sign up for an account and give it a try? If you want to be one of the first to know, sign up for our newsletter for updates on developments and FR Forms news. Or, take a look at the blog for example scenarios of how people are using FR Forms. Find out more
Anglia Business ExhibitionThe Anglia Business Exhibition (formerly the Suffolk Business Exhibition) is run by ISSBA during the first week of May each year, and is taking place in 2017 at The Ipswich Hotel. The Exhibition is now the biggest and best established event of its kind, reaching across the whole of the East of England.Free Rein is committed to a four year strategic partnership with them and is providing the new website, event management system, email and booking facilities.
Appraisal systemsWorking with HR consultancy Akenham, Free Rein developed a 360o Appraisal system initially for Nissan Design.Total appraisal management from creation of competencies and behaviours, through web based invitation, completion and reporting with full printed report, graphs and comparisons between rounds.
Event ManagementManage bookings, invitations, nomination and email invitations. Reserve lists, customer nominations and multi-session multi-venue seminarsFree Rein has delivered event management systems for BT Retail (with Jacob Bailey), Motorola (with Hart Wilcox), Intercontinental Hotel Group (with Pimento), Macmillan Publishing, Business Link and HMRC
CookiesThe Information Commissioner (ICO) and the EU Working party have revisited the original 2011 law that required websites to explicitly request permission from the visitor before placing a cookie on their machine. Their intention was to resolve some of the misunderstandings and operational difficulties that website owners were having understand when they should request permission and when they should just inform.[Ed, I know the imagery is a well used but ....]
Hadleigh's Porch ProjectThe Porch Project works with young people in Hadleigh, Suffolk and adjacent parishes.The aim is to advance the physical, mental, spiritual and social well-being and education of young people.The project is a fantastic template for these schemes and Free Rein is very proud to support Hadleigh's St Mary's Church initiative.
‹
›
Content Management
Email Marketing
eCommerce
Event Management
Heritage Connect
G-Cloud
Virtual Events
Web Development SolutionsFree Rein can provide a wide array of web development services. Specialising in bespoke requirements, we also have extensive knowledge of developing CMS systems, eCommerce for online shop developments and much more. Your website is essential to your online marketing strategy. If it is important to you, it is vital that we get it right. We will always choose the best option, whether this is utilising an offer already available, or directly building a custom system to meet your exacting needs.
Learn moreDigital Marketing ServicesFree Rein is an established digital marketing agency with experience of delivering tangible results across different channels, from social media to search engine optimisation. Our methodology is simple; Free Rein combine consultative strategy, refreshing creativity and modern digital technologies to deliver measurable results for our clients. We want our clients' brand to engage with their customers and forge a sustainable meaningful relationship moving forward.
Learn moreSocial Media ManagementSocial media marketing done right can improve brand engagement, increase sales and drastically drive traffic. We at Free Rein pride ourselves on being an extension to your team, providing best practice marketing to build your online communities.Free Rein uses the latest, innovative tools to seamlessly create content that market research indicates will maximise engagement. Free Rein listens to audiences, targets popular trending topics and produces content that is truly valued.
Learn more
Free Rein Limited
- Digital Marketing Agency
- SEO Agency Ipswich
Registered in England 05236270, Registered Office Hadleigh Enterprise Park, Crockatt Road, Hadleigh, Ipswich, IP7 6RJ
Copyright © 2017 Free Rein Ltd
| Legal
