Genzyme in the UK
Skip to Content
Skip to Navigation
Return to Homepage
Home
Sanofi Genzyme Global
Genzyme Websites
Search
Contact Us
Company Info
Our Treatment Areas
Our Products
Healthcare Professionals
Genzyme in the UK
Genzyme in the UK is dedicated to making a positive impact on the lives of people with serious diseases. Operating out of two locations we draw on the diverse talents of a 500-strong team. More>
Genzyme in the UKLearn about our UK operations.
Careers in the UKExplore opportunities in our entreprenuerial culture.
UK NewsLearn what's new for Genzyme in the UK.
ResearchFind out what is new in our research and development.
Pivotal Phase 2/3 Trial of Olipudase Alfa for Adult Patients with Acid Sphingomyelinase Deficiency (Niemann-Pick Disease Type B) to Begin in the UK
Sanofi Genzyme, the specialty care global business unit of Sanofi, announced today that the first adult patient in the UK has enrolled and been dosed in a pivotal Phase 2/3 clinical trial named ASCEND for the investigational therapy olipudase alfa. More>
Data on Treatment Effects with Lemtrada®▼ (alemtuzumab) Over Six Years in People with Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis to be presented at the 32nd Congress of the European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS) in London
Sanofi Genzyme, the specialty care global business unit of Sanofi, today announced six-year investigational data from the extension study of Lemtrada® (alemtuzumab) in patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). These results have been presented at the 32nd Congress of the European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ECTRIMS) in London. More>
Sanofi and Regeneron Announce EMA Acceptance for Review of Marketing Authorisation Application for Sarilumab
Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. today announced that the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has accepted for review the Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) for sarilumab, an investigational human monoclonal antibody directed against the IL-6 receptor that is intended for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). More>
Search
Keyword:
Go
Discover more about Genzyme's purpose, legacy, and innovation in our corporate brochure.
'
Privacy Policy
|
Terms and Conditions of Use
|
© 2003-2017 Genzyme, a Sanofi company. All rights reserved.
