Home - Hannay Robertson Financial Planning
Menu
Hannay Robertson Financial Planning
Home
How we work
Our expertise
Our clients
FAQs
Wise words
Meet the team
Contact
Perspective, planning, peace of mindInvestment advice that guides you through market uncertainties to grow and preserve your wealth.For today, for tomorrow, for lifeFinancial planning to help you get the most from your money, and even more out of life.“A dream without a plan is just a wish”Personalised financial strategies that reinforce your goals and ambitions.How we workIt’s all about youAt Hannay Robertson, we believe your wealth should inspire as well as support your life. That’s why we take time to understand what matters to you most, and to build a comprehensive picture of your financial position, needs and ambitions. Our personalised planning and advice provides clarity in complex financial matters, directing you towards your goals and opening new horizons.
Our expertiseKeeping
your finances in shapeWe are a boutique financial planning company based in Cambridge, providing jargon-free advice, comprehensive planning and long-term wealth management. Working with our established network of accountants, solicitors and other professionals, we ensure that your affairs are always in dedicated, expert hands.
Investment adviceAligning your investment portfolio with your goals, we manage costs, capture returns and minimise risk.
Estate planningOur estate and trust fund management ensures flexibility for you, and value for your beneficiaries.
Retirement planningWe specialise in helping you plan to live comfortably in retirement and not outlive your money.
Tax efficiencyWe identify opportunities to manage your wealth and investments in the most tax efficient way.
Wealth protection and transferWith our guidance you can maintain a healthy cash flow and help your beneficiaries get more out of life.
Charitable givingA structured giving plan helps you make a meaningful, cost-effective contribution to the causes you value.
Our clientsPreparing for tomorrow, living for todayAs a boutique financial planning company, we build lasting relationships with our select group of clients. We work with professionals, business owners, widows, divorcees and inheritors or beneficiaries. They value the clarity and quality of life gained through delegating their affairs to a single, trusted financial advisor. And, with their wealth under our watchful eye, they can focus on what’s important to them and get the most out of life.
“Duncan Hannay Robertson provides honest advice keeping everything simple, and therefore easily understandable. We have been very satisfied with the progress of our investments.”“Duncan Hannay Robertson is developing his financial services to include a more tailored programme for individual clients. He and his team are working meticulously to produce a thorough review of my financial situation and formulate future plans. They keep me updated on regular basis and ensure I am fully aware of new proposals, which are clearly explained.”“Annual face to face review of a careful plan covering personal finance both present time and at retirement. Subsequent re-balancing of investments after the review to suit personal preference, for example of risk level. Explanation of alternatives and of legislation/budget changes. All correspondence is timely with choice of email or posted hard copy. Contactable at all times by telephone or email and happily provides clarification needed to make clear even the most complex issue. Altogether a good working relationship.”“Duncan takes time to understand my needs and doesn't stick to preconceived ideas of how to get the best results or how to deliver optimum service.”“Gives 1st class advice especially on inheritance tax matters has a very good team behind him well versed in all aspects of financial advice.”FAQsAnswers to your questionsHow do I choose a service?The service you choose depends on your requirements. You may be looking for comprehensive financial planning, investment planning or ‘one-off’ advice on a particular aspect of your finances. We can help you choose the service that is best suited to your needs. The vast majority of our clients choose us for our Comprehensive Financial Planning service.
Is Hannay Robertson independent?You can be assured of completely independent advice from Hannay Robertson. We do not work for a bank, insurance company or fund manager. We are wholly owned by the financial planners who advise you.
Importantly, we work on a fee, not a commission basis. Consequently, our advice is not influenced by whether or not we will receive a commission.
How is a financial planner different from a wealth manager, IFA or private banker?There is no real difference, just lots of different names. Unlike us, a private banker may be able to recommend an ‘in-house’ bank account for you. Otherwise, all of these professionals should be able to give you independent financial planning and investment advice. A good financial planner will be much more valuable to you than a bad private banker and vice versa.
Is our first meeting free?We do not charge for the first meeting. It is an investment of your time and ours, which are equally valuable. This meeting is an opportunity to discuss the mutual profitability of working together, and to decide whether to take the relationship forward.
Wise wordsHere is some of the best financial wisdom on offer, with added insights of our own.
Choosing the advisor that's right for youWhere there's a willThe 10 Investment Commandments2016/17 pension changes: higher earners face two-pronged attackFind a winning fund or a winning horse - which is easier?Meet the teamEstablished by Duncan Hannay Robertson in 2012, we are small, specialised team who can offer a level of personalised service unmatched by the larger companies available.
Duncan Hannay-RobertsonDuncan is a Chartered and Certified Financial Planner. He leads the strategic development of the company, and enables clients to implement a personal financial plan. Duncan starts his day with a game of real tennis.
Damon RainsfordDamon is a Chartered Financial Planner. He designs personalised financial plans for clients and researches pensions, investments and the technicalities of advice policy. Damon starts his day having breakfast with his wife and two children.
Marie NewtonMarie, our highly experienced Operations Manager, is a logistical whizz. She ensures the smooth day-to-day running of Hannay Robertson. Marie starts her day walking across fields with her two terriers Midge and Hattie.
Get in touchBegin planning the future you wantTo establish how we can add value to your financial affairs, contact us to arrange a free, no-obligation meeting with Duncan Hannay Robertson.
We are also happy to provide you with a second opinion on your existing investment plan to ensure it is on course to meet your long-term goals.
Call us on01223 269 405email cambridge@hannayrobertson.comFollow us on LinkedIn
Or fill in your details and we'll contact you:
Name
Email
Phone
Time to call
I'd like to receive your email newsletter
Your privacy is assured. We will never sell, lend or trade your contact details.
Stay informedSign up to our email newsletter:
Name
Email
© 2017 Hannay Robertson Limited | Registered in England & Wales No. 07151723. Registered address: Wellington House, East Road, Cambridge CB1 1BH
Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Privacy policy
We use our own and third party cookies. If you continue browsing we consider you accept the use of cookies.
Accept
