Tectonic Elements | Revolutionary Speaker Components
Follow us:
LinkedIn
Google+
Twitter
RSS
Products
Applications
Technology
News
About us
Contact
Home-v2
Exciters | Efficient Amplifier | BMR Speakers | Amplifier ModulesFrom audio amplifier chips and modules that are as much as 20x more efficient than other technologies to innovative loudspeaker drivers that create high fidelity sound using bending wave techniques.
Tectonic Elements designs, markets, manufactures and sells transducers and electronic components for audio applications.
The transducer solutions employ NXT® licensed methodologies. The company’s flagship transducer is its BMR® speaker.
BMR speakers, exciters and the amplifier products are used in consumer audio, industrial and automotive applications.
Applications & Case Studies
Alpine Headphones TKR3
“I love how you can feel a great live performance in your entire body, not just your ears. And the headphones Alpine left with me to evaluate do live up to their promise of rocking your cabeza…..these phones are much more than simplistic bass monsters.”
> Find out more
Q Acoustics M4 uses a BMR speaker- What HiFi award winner 2014, 2015 and 2016!
“The Q Acoustics M4 features advanced ‘BMR’ (Balanced Mode Radiator) speaker drive units, which produce extraordinarily wide sound dispersion. This not only creates clear room filling sound, but also means every listener will enjoy the same outstanding sound quality wherever they sit in the listening room.”
> Find out more
> Watch the video
NEW PRODUCTS
New Miniature BMR®
The new BMR speaker, TEBM35C10-4 delivers 100Hz – 20kHz frequency response over a 180⁰ dispersion; all within a 52mm diameter form factor. Producing an exceptional clarity of sound across the vocal range.
> Find out more
LATEST NEWS
Tectonic Elements and Geneva Labs Head Back to the Future With Touring/S, DAB+/FM and Bluetooth Speaker
November 1, 2016
Tectonic Revolutionary Speakers Pump Up the Volume at CEDIA 2016 Ribbon Cutting Ceremony
October 12, 2016
Tectonic Elements’ BMR® Speakers Drive Two ‘What Hi-Fi?’ 2015 Award Winners
November 13, 2015
> More news
Copyright © 2017 Tectonic Elements Ltd
