IVO Associates - Home
HomeAbout usServices and ProductsReferencesContactNews
Welcome to IVO Associates -  bridging of technologies and global markets
IVO Associates (Cambridge, UK) delivers professional business development consultancy and interim management to high-tech organisations. We support your company by
assisting your Board and management team with commercial activities. Clients include small and medium-sized businesses right up to large corporations. Our goal is to help create
profitable commercial enterprise for your shareholders who have invested in high-technology.  Even if the technology is still at an early-stage we can determine best commercial
routes forward, help to secure funding, provide sales and marketing and add non-executive management resource to your start-up company at Board level.  Our 30 years' of experience includes
taking the often painful steps required to grow technology companies to a stage when a trade sale becomes attractive to the shareholders.
What makes us different
We have a practical and project-based approach to consultancy.
Our network of senior Commercial Management Executives, R&D Project Managers and Investors are all experienced entrepreneurs and managers with backgrounds in the
SME sector.
Find out more about our work and the network of IVO Associates.
About us
Our services
Commercial assessment of research, business planning, product development, product sales, funding and provision of management services.
Our services
See for yourself
Take a look at selected reference projects.
Our references
Contact
We are based in St Ives near Cambridge with access to the region's technology clusters.
+44 (0) 1480 390648
Please also use our contact form.
News
﻿﻿Rapid Biosensor Systems TB Breathalyser is successfully tested in clinical trials on several hundred people in India and Ethiopia.  Results are independently validated by Medics in
2014.
IVO Associates Partners can provide optical solutions and volume manufacture of optical components and optical sub-assemblies for medical, industrial and consumer applications
Print |
Sitemap
© IVO Associates
This website was created using 1&1 MyWebsite.
Login
Logout |
Edit page
