For general enquiries please contact us on
+44 1223 248888
enquiries2017@innoviatech.com
St Andrew's House, St Andrew's Road
Cambridge CB4 1DL United Kingdom
FIND US
Case Studies
Working together
Insights
Careers
Contact Us
Together, we make breakthrough innovation happen.
We are an innovation consultancy specialising in the front end of innovation, working with the best companies in the world to create opportunities for growth.
↓Our clients
Our Clients
PROCTER & GAMBLE
SHELL
BOEING
KRAFT HEINZ
HEWLETT-PACKARD
BAYER
VF CORPORATION
PEPSICO
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
ROLLS-ROYCE
JAGUAR LAND ROVER
BASF
NEWELL BRANDS
LEGO
CATERPILLAR
We're proud of the fact that we've helped several of our clients innovate on over 100 different projects.
“ Innovia has always done well at taking a lot of information and presenting it in an engaging way. ”
– VP Global Innovation
“ We like working with you. You make us think outside our boxes, but presented in a very methodological way. ”
– Global Platform Director
“ We couldn’t have come up with the idea you did. ”
– R&D Director
“ You gave it 100% at short notice with little briefing. ”
– Program Director, Chemistry
“ What I like about Innovia is its mix of competencies from extremely different fields, combined on a project-basis. ”
– Giuseppe Musciacchio, Co-COO, arena
↓Example case studies
Example Case Studies
Arena International
See how Innovia helped arena build a reputation for pioneering swimsuits by identifying synergies now known as the ULTRA-LINK and ULTRA-CAGE…
Boeing
Our insights supported the development of a sustainability strategy for the use of carbon fibre composites in Boeing's aircraft…
DePuy Synthes
Find out how we designed and created working prototypes of disposable surgical instruments to replace sets costing over $30,000 in just eight weeks…
Kraft Heinz
Here’s how Innovia identified key platforms with the potential to reinvent the manufacture of natural cheese for Kraft…
Procter & Gamble
Innovia’s models and insights are supporting development of future Gillette products, thanks to first-principles scientific analysis…
Shell
Innovia developed combustion fuel concepts that could go straight to proof-of-concept testing and identified applications for new chemistries…
↓What makes us better?
What makes us better?
We call it holistic innovation
Science & Technology
Design & Manufacture
Motivation & Behaviour
Business & Strategy
We combine creativity with structure, drawing on a wide range of capabilities.
Our solutions work well and drive growth: they are emotionally compelling and commercially effective.
We’re agile and responsive, delivering just what you need to make it happen.
↓Connect with us
TOGETHER, WE MAKE BREAKTHROUGH INNOVATION HAPPEN.
SIGN UP TO OUR NEWSLETTER
FRESH PERSPECTIVE
Get our newsletter for insights, blogs and the latest news on sectors that matter to you.
Name
Email
Which sectors are you interested in?
Aerospace
Apparel
Automotive
Biotech
Construction
Consumer/FMCG
Electronics
Energy
Finance
Food & Drink
Luxury
Materials & Chemicals
Medical
Pharmaceutical
Sports & Leisure
Telecoms
Transport
Utilities
Please select at least one sector.
Sign up to newsletter
© Innovia Technology, Cambridge, UK
