Keeping HR Simple
Call us today on 01487 815 720 or email us on info@keepinghrsimple.co.uk
Navigation
Practical hands on HR advice for your business
Keeping HR Simple. It’s who we are and what we do.
Knowing you’re doing the right thing at the right time
Keeping HR Simple. Giving you peace of mind.
“They do exactly what it says on the tin.”
Keeping HR Simple. It’s who we are and what we do.
“Excellent policy. Concise, firm and fair to all!”
We put your mind at rest with policies written just for your business.
Home
Home
Services
Recruiting staff
Get our help with recruiting staff
Learn how to write a really good job description
Understand how to avoid age discrimination in job adverts
Giving feedback after job interviews – our top tips!
Top tips to manage a new employee
Managing your team
Help with maternity leave
Why is managing sickness absence important?
How to Manage Long Term Absence
What is a disciplinary procedure?
Understanding the benefits of identifying and monitoring Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
How to calculate employee holiday entitlement
How to hold a grievance hearing
Managing a move to home working – communication is key
A simple guide to risk assessments
Exiting employees
Understanding dismissal – what’s fair and potentially unfair
How to avoid an unfair dismissal claim
Considering alternatives to redundancy – what are the possible options?
Keeping up to date with employment law
Blog
About Us
Our Story
Join Us
HR Support for Charities & Voluntary Sector
Partners
Buckles Solicitors
Critical Action
Circlefire
Orchid Financial Services
Sphere Risk Health Safety Management
Our Customers Say
Contact Us
Return to Content
HR Support for business owners
Are you a business owner based in the UK with between 2 and 100 employees?  Know you need to do something about HR but not sure what?
You may not be big enough to employ a HR Manager but you do want the peace of mind to know that you, your Managers and your business are complying with UK employment law and looking after your staff properly.  We give you the practical hands-on HR advice and support to manage any situation involving your staff.
Why struggle alone or spend your precious time on finding the information yourself?  We are there whenever you need us, saving you money on a full-time salary and giving you back the time to get on with running your business.
Read more about our HR services
Recruiting staffKeeping HR Simple’s recruitment method is simple, straightforward and proactive in giving you help to recruit the right people for you and your business.
We support you with your recruitment structure, process and administration to find the very best candidates.
Managing your teamYour employees will be your greatest asset or a devastating liability.
Getting the best from your employees is key to your company’s success.
We support you with all aspects of employee engagement, giving you the confidence to handle any situation correctly, quickly and professionally.Exiting employeesJust as employees join your business, there will come a time when they leave your business, for whatever reason.
When an employee chooses to resign, that can be a difficult time for a business; however, dismissing or exiting an employee from your business can be much worse.
View All
What our customers say about us
The service Katherine provides would improve any business that wants to progress whilst at the same time enhancing that business's reputation.
Sphere Risk Health Safety Management Stephen Smith, Director
http://www.sphererhsm.co.uk/
Keeping HR Simple have been brilliant - they gave me just the common sense and relevant advice I was looking for when recruiting a member of staff and going through the employment process for the first time. The Good Folk Fearghal Corbett, Owner
http://thegoodfolk.co.uk/
I'm so pleased that we found Keeping HR Simple. From the outset, our specific circumstances were understood, appreciated, and factored in to any support and advice we were given. Edgar House Tim Mills, Owner
http://www.edgarhouse.co.uk/
Working with Katherine and Jason has been simple. They make themselves available, for even the smallest of queries, and provide first class support and assistance in the, rather confusing at times, world of HR. A4 Plus Drawing Services Steve Wild, Managing Director
http://www.a4plus.co.uk/
Visit Blog Latest Blog Posts
September 14, 2016
/
Leave a comment
HR FAQ – can we deduct money from an employee who’s leaving?
You may find yourself wondering can we deduct money from an employee who’s leaving? The short answer is it depends, as so many things, on what it says in the contract. In fact, it depends on the terms of the contract AND where the money came from.  A few examples. Yes If your employee has […]
September 1, 2016
/
Leave a comment
Do you plan to recruit?
Do you plan to recruit or do you wing it when the need arises? Does the thought of recruiting for someone new fill you with dread? I read some advice recently, aimed at startup businesses, that suggested they should put more effort into early recruitment than anything else in their business.  That got me wondering […]
August 9, 2016
/
Leave a comment
Do you give good phone interviews?
So, when it comes to good phone interviews, do you know what that should be like? In fact, do you phone interview at all? Many people go straight to first interview stage once they’ve found a candidate they like the look of.  Nothing wrong with that.  Except that everything could go wrong! The candidate may […]
August 2, 2016
/
Leave a comment
Interview no shows. Should an employer just have to put up or shut up?
I read an article recently about a boss being shocked that a number of candidates who were interview no shows.  In fact, around half of those scheduled for interview just didn’t go. Unfortunately, “no shows” are becoming more common and the more interviews we at Keeping HR Simple arrange, the more we see it happening. […]
1
2
…
8
Next →
Contact Us Call us on
01487 815 720
Email
info@keepinghrsimple.co.uk
Connect with us
Subscribe Sign up to our email newsletter to receive updates find out more.
Services
Recruiting staff
Managing your team
Exiting employees
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
© 2017. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy |
Cookies |
Website by nativeBrand
Keeping HR Simple Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 6981705.
The registered address is 3 Broughton Business Centre, Causeway Road, Broughton, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, PE28 3AR
