London Accountants & Business Accounting - Kingly Brookes
See How We Can Help Call 0207 292 8850
Home
About Us
Services
Patent Box Regime Services
R&D Tax Credits
Audit and Assurance
Accounts Production
Management Consultancy and Business Support
Business Start-up
Business Tax
Personal Tax
Testimonials
News
Patent Box
R&D Tax Credit
Taxation
Business News
Technology
Autumn Statements & Budgets
Contact Us
Call Us 0207 292 8850
We are a firm of expert accountants with a business edge.
We love nothing more than working with like-minded businesses, enthusiastically collaborating to
create and retain wealth throughout every facet of their business.
See How We Can Help Your Business
Our Services
View our full range of services.
R&D Tax Services
Over the last two years alone we have helped our clients claim in excess of £45m. Find out how we can help you today.
Audit and Assurance Services
Over 30 years’ experience in providing a variety of audit and assurance services
Patent Box Regime Services
We help eligible businesses make substantial savings on the corporation tax paid on profits from patented products.
Meet The Team
Find out more about Kingly Brookes’ two partners: Martin Jones and John Moore.
Welcome To Kingly Brookes LLP
Kingly Brookes is a firm of expert accountants with a business edge. We love nothing more than working with like-minded businesses, enthusiastically collaborating to create and retain wealth throughout every facet of their business.
We love nothing more than working with like-minded businesses, to create and retain wealth throughout every facet of their business.
Our clients range from high potential start up SME’s through to multinational listed organisations. No matter what their size we combine our deep expertise with a passion for business to direct our client’s financial strategies as they grow and mature. Since 2010 we have generated our clients in excess of £45 million in additional tax relief; just one of the reasons that our clients not only stay with us but recommend us!
An entrepreneurial business faces a jungle of challenges and complexity around compliance, strategy, funding, wealth creation and retention. This is where we step in. By using our decades of experience and deep technical expertise, our goal is to both advise and act as an informed sounding board, ensuring our clients are as enthusiastic about working with us as we are about working with them!
Latest News
Business News – Spring 2017
Spring is on the way…
Autumn Statement 2016
Yesterday Philip Hammond delivered his first…
What Our Clients Are Saying...
As a young software company we, at Intelligent Positioning Limited, sought help in finding any beneficial grants or schemes to help accelerate our development programme.  Kingly Brookes (John Moore) pointed us towards the R&D Tax Credits scheme and guided us through the complex claims with skill and no little patience. This scheme has been…
- Garry Titterton, Chairman, Intelligent Positioning Limited.
Martin becomes a right hand man so far as Accountancy is concerned: an integral part of the team. His attention to detail is faultless, often recommending solutions no-one else had considered.
- Frank Philand, OPL Digital Limited
Kingly Brookes were recommended to us as specialist advisors on R&D Tax Credits and the Patent Box scheme and they have more than lived up to that reputation.  They worked closely with us to help us understand and evaluate the options available to us and once we had agreed the approach we…
- Martin Lamb, Non-Executive Chairman of Enval Ltd.
I cannot rate Kingly Brookes highly enough, from the very start they were able to offer sensible advice on the best practises and procedures we should use in order to make our accounts a useable business tool. As our company has grown we have been able to rely on the knowledgeable staff…
- Ash Bodey, Equiboodle Limited
Navigation
Home
About Us
Services
Testimonials
News
Contact Us
©2017 Kingly Brookes
SEO and Website Design by Inbound Digital Marketing
Contact Details
Telephone : 0207 292 8850
Address:
Kingly Brookes LLP,
415 Linen Hall,
162-168 Regent Street,
London
W1B 5TE
Social Links
We use cookies on this website, you can find more information about cookies here
Kingly Brookes is the trading name of Kingly Brookes LLP registered in England & Wales 0C354942. Registered office 415 Linen Hall 162-168 Regent Street, London, W1B 5TE. Registered to carry on audit work in the UK and Ireland by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales. Details about our audit registration can be viewed at www.auditregister.org.uk. We comply with the Provision of Services Regulations 2009 in respect of Professional Indemnity Insurance.
