Practising Open Education 2010-11
—
ADM-HEA
Skip to content.
Search
Home
|
about us
|
news
|
events
|
awards
|
projects
|
links
|
resources
|
Networks
Home >
projects >
collaborative sector projects >
Practising Open Education 2010-11
Home
about us
news
events
awards
projects
ADM-HEA projects
collaborative sector projects
sector funding
links
resources
Forum
Networks
Practising Open Education 2010-11
Project Partners
Leeds
Trinity University College – Department of Media Film and CultureBucks
New University – School of Design, Craft and Visual ArtsDe
Montfort University – Faculty of Art and DesignKingston
University – Faculty of Art, Design and ArchitectureUniversity
of Southampton – Winchester School of ArtUniversity
of Hertfordshire – School of Creative Arts
" Participation in this project will help us to begin to address some of our key concerns regarding embedding TEL processes and transforming HE L&T practices in Art and Design."
Tina Barnes Powell (Head of Postgraduate Studies and Learning and Teaching Enhancement)  -  De Montfort University
Project News
For project updates and OER Programme News please go to the PROJECT BLOG and scroll down this page to see the Project Newsletters downloadable as PDFs.
About the UK-OER Programme
JISC and the Higher Education Academy are collaborating on the Open Educational Resources programme. The Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) has provided an initial £5.7 million of funding for 29 pilot projects (April 2009 to March 2010) which will explore how we can expand the open availability and use of free, high quality online educational content.
These resources showcase the high quality of UK higher education and our vision is that they will be used and reused globally. Such resources might include full courses, course materials, complete modules, videos, assessments, tests, simulations, worked examples or software. The programme will support universities and colleges in exploring intellectual property rights, cultural issues, technical requirements and data management issues.
Project Overview
Practising Open Education, as part of the JISC-Academy UK OER Programme,
is a twelve-month project being managed by the ADM-HEA Subject Centre with six
art, design and media departments in UK universities.
As part of the ‘Cascade’ funding strand the OER Phase 2 Project’s aim is
to build upon the experiences understandings, findings and supporting resources
of the pilot ADM-OER Pilot Project to the benefit of the wider range of project
partners, the subject network and wider HE community.
By engaging directly with departmental staff the project aims to
investigate understandings of OERs within the partner institutions in order to
assess and address motivations and barriers to their creation and use.
The project will seek to highlight the potential benefits of OERs with
regard to institutional and staff profiles. In consideration of enhancing the
student experience the project’s underlying message implies the long-term
merits of OER creation and use in raising pedagogic standards.
The project’s key strategy is to work with staff across the department
in order to shape and realise each partner’s ‘OER vision’. The project is
grounded in the belief that institutional support, staff understandings and
constructive dialogue across the department provide the best opportunity to
encourage cultural change. In order to work effectively in the online ecology
OERs provide an appropriate mechanism to fulfill this potential.
The project’s objective is to encourage
engagement with openly accessible teaching and learning resources providing
opportunities for widening participation in higher education. Through the
processes of the project partners will collate and create, making openly
accessible, and repurposable licensed resources available through institutional
portals and the Jorum Open website.
The findings, outputs, final report and additional reports are available on the:
ADM-OER Pilot Project Website
Project Methodology
Focus Groups
A focus
group will be held in each participating department comprising a range of
staff, from across all subject areas including: teaching, library services, IT
services, management (HoD) and, where possible, partner FE institutions,
performing arts staff and student representatives.
The focus
groups will be a mechanism to collect information about:
Perceptions
of art, design and media OERs; motivations for, and barriers to, their creation
and useRepository
facilities in placeTechnical
supportInstitutional
supportResources
with OER potential
The focus
groups will provide information about:
The
outputs of the ADM-OER Pilot Project that may be of value and offer guidance –
intellectual property, copyright, licenses, creative commons, and metadataConsultancy
offered by the ADM-OER Pilot Project partners, UAL, UCA and University of
Cumbria, on any strategic issuesJorum
Open – how to upload and use resources
Focus Group Reports
The project manager has presented the collected information, in report form, back to the institution with appropriate recommendations.
The report are available here to download:
Focus Group Report - Kingston University
Focus Group Report - De Montfort University
Focus Group Report - Winchester School of Art
Focus Group Report - University of Hertfordshire
Focus Group Report - Bucks New University
Focus Group Report - Leeds Trinity College
An additional thematic spreadsheet is available which summarises the Focus Group information:
Click to download
Support Documents - PDFs to Download
Focus Group overview and Guidelines
Focus Group Questions
Practising Open Education - Project Partners' Reporting Template
Project Partners' Action Plan Feedback Template
In addition there is a whole range of supporting documents, templates, reports and OER guidance information available at: ADM-OER Pilot Project Website
Departmental Action Plans
The
designated departmental ‘project leader’ has drawn upon the recommendations highlighted in the Focus Group Repopts and the Action Plan Feedback in
order to work with departmental staff to develop a strategic OER Action plan.
The departmental  Action Plan identifies actions which address barriers and
capitalise on motivations within the department for OER production and use and ultimately embed
effective OER practices and policies.
In
implementing their OER Action Plan, departments have been able to call on the
support of the Project Manager, access the resources developed as part of the
ADM-OER pilot project, and draw upon the support from the pilot project’s
Institutional Leaders, at University of the Arts, London, University for the
Creative Arts and University of Cumbria, who, if required, have been available as consultants
for the Phase 2 project.
See Support Documents above for 'Action Plan Feedback' Template
The plans, now completed, are available here as downloadable PDFs:
ACTION PLAN: Kingston University
ACTION PLAN: Winchester School of Art
ACTION PLAN: De Montfort University
ACTION PLAN: University of Hertfordshire
ACTION PLAN: Bucks New University
Community of Practice
"While institutions can coordinate open educational
resource projects, faculty who voluntarily share their creative works are the
primary force behind the success of these projects".
David Wiley  - On the Sustainability of
Open Educational Resource Initiatives in Higher Education
The project believes that pedagogic practice
is the central issue in OERs and that the opinions, perceptions and support
from the subject community is fundamental.
The processes, outcomes and findings of the
project are to be shared by all. The project values your input in this. Please
feel free to follow the course of the project and you are encouraged to comment
and get involved.
Practising Open Education Final Project Plan (PDF)
Project Completion and Final Report
The project has now been completed the Final Report is available below:
Final Project Report (click to download)
To help support the subject and HE communities a briefer Summary Report is currently being drafted by the project management and will be made available through this website.
Although the funded project period has concluded many of the project partners' 'actions' and activities extend beyond this period as well as the continued release of resources through Jorum Open and other platforms.
For information regarding the continuing activities please read the ADM-HEA Bulletin updates and go to the Project Blog
Project Evaluation Report
In order to help assess the processes, outcomes and potential long-term impact the partners have shared their experiences, reflected on the lessons, challenges and successes of the project. These observations, together with identified strategies for sustainability and plans for further developing open educational practice, have been collated into a report, available here as a PDF download:
Project Partners' Evaluation Report
OER News
A special issue of JIME: Journal of Interactive Media
is now available online covering a range of important OER topics.
The articles are available to download as PDFs or in HTML format.
Link to Journal
What Do You Know About Copyright?
The University College Falmouth is undertaking the Intellectual Property Rights For Educational Environments (IPR4EE) Project for the UK OER Programme Phase 2.As part of the project the team have designed a questionnaire to
assess how much we really know about copyright, trade marks and
patents. If you follow the link you can respond to show your knowledge
of these issues.
The questionnaire is not a test and there are no ‘right’ or ‘wrong’
responses but it is important we answer the questions honestly.
Link to Questionnaire
Link to Project Website
Pedagogic Research Conference 2011
The project management team, Steve Mallinder and Debbie Flint, presented early project findings at the University of Brighton Pedagogic Research Conference, 2011.
The presentation looked at key OER initiatives, examples of resources and facilities, and discussed the themes emerging from the focus group meetings with staff in the participating institutions.
Click to view the  presentation slides
Jorum Open
All teaching and learning materials identified by the ADM-OER Project and the Practising Open Education Project are deposited into the JISC central repository JORUM OPEN which houses materials in all subject disciplines.
The materials are uploaded and Creative Commons licenses applied. The process straightforward and all teaching, and support, staff in UK institutions will be able to log in and complete the stages to upload.
We would encourage everyone who has teaching and learning materials (PDFs, Power Point Presentations, worksheets, podcast links etc.) they wish to share to become involved.
To browse the resources and deposit materials please follow the link to Jorum Open
If you have any questions or problems depositing please contact:  suppport@jorum.ac.uk
Project Newsletters
A regular newsletter is distributed to project partners
through the Project JISCMail list. They will include important news and information,
up and coming publications, conferences and opportunities in relation to the
project and OERs. These updates will be included on the project website and project
blog for the subject, and HE, community to access.
We would encourage you to forward any information you think would be good to
share with the group to Steve for future newsletters.
Practising Open Education Newsletter 1 October 2010
Practising Open Education Newsletter 2 November 2010
Practising Open Education Newsletter 3 December 2010
Practising Open Open Education Newsletter 4 Jan-Feb 2011
Practising Open Education Newsletter 5 March-April 2011
Practising Open Education Newsletter June 2011
Websites and Contact
Project Blog: http://admopened.wordpress.com
Leeds
Trinity University College – Department of Media Film and Culture
Bucks
New University – School of Design, Craft and Visual Arts
De
Montfort University – Faculty of Art and Design
Kingston
University – Faculty of Art, Design and Architecture
University
of Southampton – Winchester School of Art
University
of Hertfordshire – School of Creative Arts
Project Manager- Stephen Mallinder: s.w.mallinder@brighton.ac.uk
Page Navigation
Stop Press!
ADM-HEA BULLETIN - now replaced by networkADM blog
ADM-HEA BULLETIN - week ending 13 January 2012
copy of email bulletin sent to members of ADM-HEA JISCmail list
ADM-HEA BULLETIN - week ending 6 January 2012
copy of email bulletin sent to members of ADM-HEA JISCmail list
ADM-HEA BULLETIN - week ending 16 December 2011
copy of email bulletin sent to members of ADM-HEA JISCmail list
Presentations from Art, Design, Media Creative Learning and Teaching day now online
This is an archived site |
Networks continues |
Legal disclaimer |
Site Map
