Home - University of Wales
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Close
Dewis iaith | Please select your language
Bydd eich dewis iaith yn cael ei gofnodi ar y cyfrifiadur hwn; os oes cyfrif gyda chi gallwch logio i mewn a safio'r gosodiad hwn yn eich proffil.
Your language choice will be saved to this computer, If you have an account you can log in and save this default in your profile.
Resize
Explore the University of Wales
Help
Cymraeg
University Centres
University of Wales Press
Conferences at Gregynog
Centre for Advanced Welsh & Celtic Studies
Dictionary Unit
Quick Information
Online Library
Search for a course
Search for an institution
Vacancies
Enquiries
Search
Home
About Us
News & Events
Registry
Online Library
University Shop
Resource 95~5~1 not found
Stakeholders' Voice
Quality & Administrative Conference 2016
University of Wales Shop
Graduate Services
News & Events
News
|
Events
Ensuring a legacy for future generations
DescriptionThe University delivers one of the first initiatives under Adduned Cymru – The Wales pledge with the full transferral of all 'restricted endowments' to an independent trust
An evening of music at the Dylan Thomas Centre
DescriptionStudents from the Wales International Academy of Voice will perform with Pembroke-based choir Bella Voce
Bangor Branch - Upcoming Events
DescriptionTheir 2016/17 lecture programme continues with events scheduled for January and March
WCEE Research Associate has book recommended by THE Supplement
DescriptionDr Alex Southern has published a book based on her PhD research
Students
Graduation Celebration 2017
Student Charter
Study Skills
Academic Regulations
Alumni
Register for Alumni Association
News and Events
Magazine - Campus
Alumni Services
University of Wales Press
Contributing since 1922 to the building of modern Wales: dedicated to learning, the life-long pursuit of knowledge and academic excellence
University of Wales Press website
Gregynog
Residential and Day Conference Centre. Perfect for Business, Academic and leisure. Gregynog can host residential and non-residentials conferences.
Website
CELTIC RESEARCH CENTRE
The research institute of the University of Wales, researching projects into the language, literature and history of Wales.
About The Centre
Dictionary of the Welsh Language
Current Research Projects
dylan Thomas centre
The University has recently taken over the lease of this iconic building in Swansea.
Introduction to the centre
Enquiries
Vacancies
Press
Intranet
Webmail
Eduroam
University of Wales University Registry King Edward VII Avenue Cardiff CF10 3NS
Tel:		+44 (0)29 2037 6999
© Copyright 2015 The University of Wales unless otherwise stated
Cookies on this Site
Disclaimer
Privacy
Publication Scheme
Accessibility Statement
Powered by Contensis
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
