PSYCHE Project Website | Developing E-Learning Resources for Psychological Research Methods
PSYCHE Project Website
psyche
Blog Posts
Publications
psyche
Reproduce: PSYCHE Project (funded by JISC)
PSYCHE is a project of
Heythrop College, University of London, which aimed to produce two 15-credit technology-enhanced modules in Research Methods and Statistics in Psychology, using a minimum 50% reused and repurposed content from sources external to the institution. The project was funded by JISC and ran from March 2008 to March 2009.
Project Final Report
PSYCHE Project Final Report (PDF format)
Also, see the ALT-C 2009 Poster
Learning Materials
The learning materials which can be offered openly can be downloaded using the links below.
The materials were put together using the free ExELearning tool, which may be downloaded here for a range of platforms.  Very little technical knowledge is required to use this tool, thus these resources may be easily edited without technical support.
The resources are available as an ExE package.  Simply download ExE, and this file (~150Mb), load the file, and edit.
ExE can export other formats (e.g. SCORM).  To make use of these, follow the instructions above, and use the ‘Export’ option in the ‘File’ menu.
The resources are available as a web site, zipped into a single file
(~150Mb).  Unzip this file, and point your browser at the file
‘index.html’ within the folder.
Reading Styles and Interaction with Online Materials
A report of a study exploring the psychology of reading among low prior knowledge learners will be published here.
ALT-C 2009 Talk Slides
This page will be maintained until February 2012.
Heythrop College, University of London
Heythrop College, University of London
JISC
Casper
JORUM
Other Project Blogs
Project Page at JISC
Reproduce Programme
Psychology
HEA Psychology Resources
Useful Tools
GanttProject Project Management
London Pedagogic Planner
RELOAD
Admin
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
