Public Goods - Political, Social and Consumer News and Views
Public Goods
Political, Social and Consumer News and Views
Home
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Blog: Latest News
April 19, 2016
T3 Ping Pong launches pink table for Cancer Research UK
T3 Ping Pong launches a new PINK Indoor/Outdoor 3-a-side table in support of Cancer Research UK’s ‘Pink Pong’ at Hackney Half Marathon on Sunday 8th May 2016
Be one of the first to have a go and play alongside some of the UK’s top table tennis super stars
This limited edition table has been kindly donated by T3 Ping Pong and their Kent based outdoor table manufacturer, Sign 2000 Ltd.
Liz May, Founder of Pink Pong said “We wanted a table that could really draw in the crowds – and this certainly does that. Its round shape makes it so much more inviting than a traditional table tennis table. T3 3-a-side table tennis is such a fun game to play and the great thing is, anyone can take part. It’s been really well received already just from the picture. And after launch, we’ve just heard it will be included in the opening of the Ping London’s 2016 Summer campaign at the end of June, which is excellent news!”
Pink Pong International Table Tennis stars featured on this unique table are Josh Band, Sean Doherty, Will Bayley, Amanda Mogey, Corinna Whitaker, Ryan Jenkins, Charlotte Carey, David Wetherill, Kelly Sibley and Liz May.
Date for the Diary: Launch Day – Hackney Half Marathon, (London)
The T3 Pink Pong Table will be launched at the Hackney Half Marathon on Sunday 8th May at the Cancer Research UK marquee in the Race Village.
To find us follow signs to Hackney Marshes, on Homerton Road, Hackney, E9 5PF
The ribbon will be cut at 10am followed by an exhibition T3 match between our top international players.
Join us and show your support by being one of the first to have a game on our new table.
(Come on your own or as a triples team.) Open to all ages and abilities! We’ve even got spot prizes for the most fun players!
What is T3?
T3 Ping Pong is three or six-a-side table tennis. It follows similar rules to the traditional game, but it is played on a circular table with three or six players on each team. The distinctive circular design and specially constructed net are the foundations of a game which offers a greater range of shots increasing the scope for some spectacular rallies.
Launched in 2013, this unique British made and designed product, is being described as the biggest game changer in over 100 years of table tennis! And it’s obvious why!
T3 ping pong also caught the attention of the International sports community at ISPO in January, where it was awarded ‘FINALIST’ in the ISPO 2016/17 Brand New Awards held in Munich, Germany.
“We first met Liz of PINK PONG last year at the World Championships of Ping Pong when she approached us about making a pink T3! I could see it straight away, as could my 5 year old daughter who now wants to know why all our tables aren’t pink! The end result is even better and it features all the table tennis stars who support Pink Pong and Cancer Research UK.’
Digi Berry, Director, T3 Ping Pong
Annabel Coakley of Cancer Research UK said “At Cancer Research UK we hold and support many events each year but rarely do we come across something as unique as 3-a-side ping pong especially on a bright pink table! I think it will be a great addition to our fund rising equipment and we hope lots of people will come along and have a go.
We are absolutely delighted that T3 have decided to support Cancer Research UK and are extremely grateful for their kind donation! Although we have come a long way in the fight against cancer in the past 40 years there is still so much to do, and we can’t fund our vital lifesaving research without the generosity and dedication of our supporters and volunteers.’
The game is all about team, fun and inclusivity.
Posted in Health
by bruno
Leave a comment
April 9, 2016
South American Guyana to open forest talks thanks to Welsh support
An indigenous group based in the forests of Guyana, South America are hopeful that their land will be officially recognised by the government thanks to the support of the people of Wales.
The Wapichan people have been living in and using their forests sustainably for generations, yet the government only officially recognises the group’s legal rights to a small portion of their ancestral home. The community have called for fair and effective actions to title the full extent of their collective land since Guyana’s independence in 1966.
Their forest territory, made up of beautiful primary rainforest, is 1.4million hectares (3/4 the size of Wales at approx. 2 million hectares). Size of Wales, a unique Welsh climate change charity, has been supporting work to secure legal rights for this land. Once recognised the group wish to establish a large community owned Wapichan Conserved Forest to protect the precious eco-system.
Now the government may be listening. The President of Guyana has agreed to hold formal discussions with Wapichan representatives on the next steps to legally secure their territory. This action has been applauded and preliminary discussions with the government are expected to happen in the coming weeks.
Elizabeth Andre, an elder of Aishalton Village, said “Since I was a little girl I used to hear my daddy talking about the land… (and) the need to have our land rights respected. I never believed that after all this time, which is nearly 60 years now, that nothing would have been done to properly protect our territory.”
“My mother is very elderly. I want her to see our territory legally recognized so she may die peacefully, knowing that our people and our future generations are secure on our collective land. We look to our new government to take action now. We have waited long enough.” she continued.
Welsh support through Size of Wales has been vital for this project. Since 2011 it has helped the community map their traditional lands, develop plans for a large community conserved forest, and create sustainable management plans. New technology is supporting this endeavour; the group recently built a drone to monitor threats of illegal logging and mining within their lands, and are currently developing a community managed website.
International pressure has helped push for a change of stance from the Guyanese government. Nicholas and Faye Fredericks from the community recently raised awareness for their plight by attending the UN’s climate conference COP21 in Paris last December.
Whilst there the group were awarded the UN’s Equator Prize which recognises outstanding local community initiatives and solutions to climate change. Size of Wales also attended the COP21 conference to raise awareness for tropical forests and highlight Wales’ positive impact on climate change.
Tropical forests are crucial in the fight against the changing climate – they absorb nearly a fifth of the world’s man-made CO2 emissions every year. Size of Wales helps protect these precious environments by supporting an area of tropical forest the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change.
Size of Wales supports the work of Forest Peoples Programme and South Central Peoples Development Association. You can support this project by visiting sizeofwales.org.uk. Any donations made will be doubled by Size of Wales’ generous match fund.
Posted in Environment
by bruno
Leave a comment
March 12, 2016
ShareTheMiracle spreading kindness over Easter
Thousands of people across the UK will be surprised with chocolate eggs and other gifts this Easter as hundreds of groups and individuals ShareTheMiracle of kindness with neighbours, complete strangers and organisations and charities in their communities.
Thousands of Easter eggs and other gifts are expected to be given out to among others homeless and elderly people, victims of human trafficking and children in hospital.
For the fourth year running, people in towns and cities up and down the country will be part of a movement which began in 2013 when Dan Usher decided to buy 100 chocolate eggs from a local supermarket and give them away to people in his community.
The movement has grown year on year. In 2014, the ground-breaking initiative spread and over 7,500 free Easter eggs and other gifts were handed out. Last year 15,000 people across the UK received gifts.
“The aim of ShareTheMiracle is very simple – to show kindness and help to release hope across communities, with neighbours, friends and local organisations,” says Dan Usher.
“I believe Easter is a time of new life and hope, so what better time of year to transform our communities, break down some of the social barriers which keep us apart and start new friendships?”
“Relationships are the key to healthy communities and it’s down to each one of us to play our part in creating the world we want to live in. We are all ‘designed for kindness’ and although giving out a gift, or an Easter egg – which is a symbol of new life – and extending an invitation to a community or social event, might seem a little thing we believe a simple intentional act of kindness can begin to change our world!” Dan says.
ShareTheMiracle invites people to form local groups, and gather chocolate eggs either by buying them or through generous donations from local companies (This year the team was delighted to receive the support of The Wellesley hotel, London’s finest boutique-grand hotel) – ShareTheMiracle works with generous retailers who donate eggs and gifts in communities across the country and this year organisers hope more businesses will get on board. Groups expected to be involved this year include businesses, schools, churches, local councils, voluntary groups and teams of neighbours.
“This year ShareTheMiracle is scheduled to run from mid-March to the Easter weekend (25th to 28th March, 2016) but it’s really down to local groups to decide when the best time is to share a little happiness and hope to those around them. Whether you get together with other friends, or work colleagues, or you just go it alone, we’d love 2016 to be biggest and best year yet for ShareTheMiracle,” says Dan Usher
Each egg or gift is accompanied by an Easter invitation card. Neighbours may be invited to dinner, an elderly person might receive a personal invitation to a social club and parents can be invited to be part of a local parent and toddler group. Teenagers may receive an invitation to a local activity or mentoring group, and some of those handing out invitations with their gifts may choose to encourage people to attend a special community Family Fun Day or Easter services at their local church.
The special invitations can be ordered from the website – ShareTheMiracle.org – where there is also loads of information to help groups start sharing acts of kindness in their communities. Stories of communities transformed by ShareTheMiracle can also be found on the website.
In 2015 volunteers met and gave gifts to around 15,000 people in places as far afield as London, Surrey and Sussex to Leicestershire, Northamptonshire and Birmingham. It wasn’t just individuals that were contacted, but also groups, agencies and local organisations including government officers, schools, elderly people, business colleagues, Saturday shoppers, homeless people and victims of human trafficking. Volunteers also visited and treated Great Ormond Street Hospital in London, handing out toys and gifts to the children there and this is expected to happen again in 2016.
If you want more information go to ShareTheMiracle.org
Posted in General
by bruno
Leave a comment
February 3, 2016
Givey is Revolutionising UK Charity Fundraising
An independent social enterprise is reimagining charity with an innovative platform that shines the spotlight on digital donations. Voted the UK’s number one fundraising site by Money Saving Expert, Givey
is taking on the big guns in a bid to transform the way Brits give.
Despite blue chip competition from entities such as Just Giving and Virgin Money Giving, Givey comes top on Money Saving Expert. Transparency underpins its business model, with the team ensuring that data, values and actions are all crystal clear. There are no set-up fees for users, charities or projects, with a 5% transaction fee added on to contributions, as opposed to deducted as per most other digital donation sites. This David versus Goliath advantage has created a resounding buzz within the UK charity sector, as reflected by its recent acknowledgement from the nation’s number one consumer website.
Drawing on the expertise of economists, psychologists and evolutionary biology specialists, Givey has created a platform that makes giving as intuitive and natural as possible. These nuggets of wisdom are manifested throughout the site, making the donation process fast, easy and innate. Already, Givey has helped 35,000 people raise £1.1m for over 8,000 projects and charities across the UK.
“Our entire ethos is underpinned by the goal of making giving a habitual part of everyday life,” says Neil Mehta, CEO.
Givey brings a personalised aspect to donations by encouraging users to set up a Post. These can then be shared on social media in a bid to kick-start donations. From chopping off eight years worth of dreadlocks, running the London Marathon and embarking on a 26 mile overnight hike, Posts turn altruistic feelings into proactive fundraising campaigns.
“Plain and simple, Givey hands Brits an opportunity to put their money where their mouth is. Through our platform people can make meaningful statements, coupled with meaningful donations that make a difference. This actively facilitates a deeper level of engagement between the giver and the receiver,” adds Mehta
The site sets itself apart from the crowd by supporting causes that people care about. With its sights set on expansion, Givey is currently recruiting small to medium sized charities to join its platform. The platform supports causes of all shapes and sizes. From national registered charities to charitable organisations, groups or individuals, no cause is too big or small.
As part of its growth plan Givey is also considering partnerships with charity specific web development agencies.
To find out more about Givey, explore the causes and join the giving revolution, go to: https://www.givey.com
Posted in General
by bruno
Leave a comment
January 15, 2016
Sir Elton John renews his Patronage of STARS
The monumental career of international singer-songwriter and performer Sir Elton John has spanned more than five decades. He is one of the top-selling solo artists of all time, with thirty- five Gold and twenty- five Platinum albums and twenty-nine consecutive Top 40 hits. He has sold more than 250 million records worldwide. Elton holds the record for the biggest-selling single of all time, “Candle in the Wind,” which sold 37 million copies. The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences has awarded Elton five Grammys, the Grammy Legend Award, and honoured him with the MusiCares Person of the Year Award. Elton was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994. Additionally, he was the first artist honoured by the Billboard Touring Conference with its Legend of Live Award, which recognises those in the concert business who have made a significant and lasting impact on the industry. And in September 2013, Elton was honoured as the first recipient of the prestigious BRITs Icon Award. He continues to tour all over the world.
The smash-hit stage production of Billy Elliot, for which Elton composed the music, was nominated for a record nine Olivier Awards, winning Best Musical, among others. It was nominated for a record-tying fifteen Tony Awards and won ten, including Best Musical.
Elton received an Academy Award for The Lion King, and Tony Awards for both The Lion King and Aida. He served as the Executive Producer for the hugely successful animated feature Gnomeo & Juliet, which opened in February 2011.
In 1992, Elton established the Elton John AIDS Foundation (EJAF), which today is one of the leading non-profit HIV/AIDS organisations. EJAF has raised more than £220m ($349) million to date to support hundreds of HIV/AIDS prevention, service, and advocacy programs around the globe. In 1998, The Queen of England knighted him Sir Elton John, CBE. In 2004, he received Kennedy Center Honors for his lifetime contributions to American culture and excellence through the performing arts.
In 2012, Elton published Love Is the Cure, a book about his personal connection to the AIDS epidemic and the work of EJAF, which became a national best seller in the United States. In 2013, in recognition of his philanthropic and humanitarian efforts through EJAF, Elton received the Harvard
School of Public Health AIDS Initiative Leadership Award and the Rockefeller Foundation’s Lifetime
Achievement Award.
Elton said: “I am pleased to offer my continued support to STARS, to Heart Rhythm Week – 6-12 June 2016: www.heartrhythmweek.org and to the Arrhythmia Alliance’s ‘Now Is the Time’ Manifesto: http://bit.ly/1m688yD. Early detection and diagnosis of arrhythmias, and any unexplained loss of consciousness are vital to ensure that those affected can have access to vital knowledge and ensure they are receiving the appropriate treatment which may prove to be life-saving. “STARS has taken a lead in raising awareness of unexplained loss of consciousness, and offers invaluable support and advice to those in need. I am delighted to offer my continued support to STARS for its important work.
Posted in Health
by bruno
Leave a comment
November 19, 2015
Africa Motorbike Trip By Hampshire Mum and Daughter
Melanie Cowpland and her nine-year-old daughter Sofia, from Liphook, are planning a trip from Bow in East London (UK) to East London (South Africa) – on a motorbike with a sidecar.  They will be raising money for the Adventure Autism Foundation, a charity they have set up to provide unique opportunities for children and adults with autism.
Sofia was diagnosed with autism when she was four, so this will be an epic journey of challenge and courage. The pair plan to start their adventure on the 14th November 2015 and expect to take nine months to cross Europe then Africa from north to south, covering approximately 20,000kms
Melanie, who is an experienced traveller, artist, author and spiritual coach, said: “I’ve always been an advocate for autism, in particular awareness of girls with autism, and I hope our journey will raise much-needed awareness of the need to grow and develop children with autism on a personal level so that they can realise their amazing potential.”
“I believe it will be an extraordinary adventure for Sofia. With autism, there is not only an inability to make sense of the external world but also the internal world. This challenge will be an opportunity for Sofia to make better sense of who she is, what she is capable of, and who she is in the context of this world.”
The journey will be tough: mum and daughter will have to cope with the cold of winter in central Europe and the heat of the deserts of Africa.  Borders, language barriers and the rough state of African roads will be more challenges.
Melanie said: “I’m learning from scratch not only to ride a motorbike, but to know my way around the mechanics and maintenance.   Confidence off road has also been an important feature of training to ensure that should conditions get difficult, I am able to get the bike through it.”
“The main challenge of all this, though, is going to be Sofia’s autism.  This will be a long, noisy journey on some very bumpy terrain, so all her sensitivities will be challenged, not to mention her many fears of the big wide world.  She will be receiving lots of preparation to ensure she knows exactly what it will be like to travel in the sidecar, and the various scenarios that she will be facing.”
Melanie added: “Sofia will be home-schooled during the journey to ensure that she is up to the same level as her peers when she returns to school in September 2016.”
Mum and daughter hope to raise awareness not only of autism, but of what is possible with autism. All funds will go to the Adventure Autism Foundation which will fund the trip, and which they have set up to give personal growth opportunities to children and adults who have been diagnosed with autism. This may include skills training for particular interests to help them find a career, or challenging experiences that will help them to discover who they really are and what they are capable of.
In support of their cause and their courage, Pure Hydration is providing Melanie and Sophia with water purification equipment for use throughout their journey. As the pair are sure to come across undrinkable water which they will need to make safe to drink, clean teeth and use for cooking, the purification equipment will ease health concerns as the mother, daughter team travel towards their goal. Please visit www.Purehydration.com
for details.
Well-wishers can also find more information and keep up to date with the trip by clicking
LIKE  on Africa With Autism FaceBook page. Donations are very gratefully received through Virgin Money Giving (search – To Africa With Autism) £10 = 100km = Autism Awareness
Posted in General
by bruno
Leave a comment
October 22, 2015
Disabled talent is a hugely untapped pool
Recruitment firms should take the lead in helping their end clients recognise disabled talent as an untapped resource. That’s according to The Association of Professional Staffing Companies (APSCo) which has launched the very first best practice guide to disability confidence for recruitment firms.
Speaking at the launch Ann Swain, Chief Executive of APSCo said: “We want the role of the recruitment profession to be that of a catalyst for change in creating a level of confidence when it comes to the recruitment of disabled talent. Our clients are looking for a broader client base – and UK plc is talent short – and yet so many organisations – because they are time short and under pressure – look at recruiting the same old people from the same old places.”
The guide, developed in conjunction with Business Disability Forum (BDF) and sponsored by EY, who also hosted the launch, provides practical tips and expert advice on how recruiters can best engage with disabled talent.
Susan Scott-Parker OBE, Founder and Honorary Vice President of BDF summed up the business case for hiring disabled talent perfectly: “It’s the same as hiring Canadian people – some of them can do the job! Disabled people are often excluded from employment not because organisations don’t want to recruit and develop disabled talent, but because recruitment processes, partners and suppliers inadvertently place barriers in the way. From talent attraction strategies that give disabled talent the perceived view that ‘we’re not interested in you’ to online application processes that limit people with certain impairments – business misses out on hiring the best talent and disabled people simply miss out!”
Speaking at the launch, Peter Holliday, Managing Director of Sopra Steria Recruitment whose firm has recently joined BDF outlined his motivations. “This isn’t just the right thing to do – being equal, fair and accessible should be a given – but it’s also a real business opportunity for organisations. I found that several of my clients were already members of BDF and were recognising disabled people as an untapped talent pool – and as recruiters, we should be leading – not following.”
Iain Wilkie, Senior Partner at EY who is the Executive Champion for Disability at the firm outlined some of the enormous business benefits of hiring disabled talent by highlighting the qualities that may not immediately spring to mind. “People with autism are strong at problem solving – just one of the reasons that GCHQ is keen to recruit them. Those with mobility issues are often good at coming up with creative solutions,many people with hearing impediments develop an invaluable ability to read body language while stammerers are often recognised as great listeners. Why wouldn’t you want people with these skills in your business?”
Posted in Business
by bruno
Leave a comment
October 20, 2015
New Study Great British Plans: Who Made Them and How They Worked
‘Why does everything take so long and why do we find it so difficult to reach strategic conclusions and carry them out?’ asks Lord Heseltine in his foreword to Ian Wray’s exploration of how the British make and execute their greatest plans.
Great British Plans: Who made them and how they worked
is no ordinary study of planning methods and implementation. But it is
a study of how plans, which delivered nationally significant infrastructure or profoundly shaped the country’s physical environment, were successfully realized.
Opening with a description of the 1940 exploits of Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham, Commander in Chief of the Mediterranean Fleet, his terse signal on their completion: ‘Manoeuvre well executed’, sets the tone for what is to follow.
Nine detailed case studies range from the seventeenth century to the present day, and from landscape architecture and motorways, to building a new city and the ‘knowledge economy’. They reveal extraordinary tales of innovation, improvisation and individualism at the heart of successful plans, all driven by passionate individuals. And here’s the key point: they invariably worked without support (and sometimes with active opposition) from Whitehall.
In just some of his intriguing studies, Ian Wray shows how:
Whether in the era of Sir Christopher Wren, Sir Patrick Abercrombie, or the present day, the green spaces and built environment of London have been formed not by government plans, but by individual builders, landowners and objectors.
Birkenhead Park, the world’s first public park, and the model for New York’s Central Park, owes its existence to a handful of individuals, not to government action.
Thanks to Head of the Secret Intelligence Service, Sir Hugh Sinclair, the code breakers of Bletchley Park, were catered for by a top London chef. Sinclair purchased the buildings for them too, at his own expense, after Whitehall turned down his Bletchley plan. And it seems he was never repaid!
The saga of the Channel Tunnel and its rail link is typical of large-scale British infrastructure planning, with high dependency on private initiative and individual political leadership. Victorian railway baron, Sir Alfred Watkin was the first Briton to start building a tunnel under the Channel, but government and civil service were determined to stop him. When it came to the new rail link a century later, backed by Michael Heseltine, another private sector plan (from Arup) won the day.
In the final part of this revelatory and hugely readable book, Wray concludes that the lesson from his case studies is that ‘polycentric governance’ is a staple of the British style; that Britain has some of the densest networks of civic association (or ‘social capital’) in the world; and that working together these can serve the country well in the turbulent and unpredictable future ahead.
Ian Wray
is a Visiting Professor in Geography and Planning and Visiting Fellow in the Heseltine Institute for Public Policy and Practice, University of Liverpool. He was Chief Planner, Northwest Development Agency, 2000–2010. He has written for The Architects’ Journal , Management Today
and The Guardian
and is currently a trustee of the Town and Country Planning Association and of World Heritage UK, and a member of the general assembly of the Royal Town Planning Institute.
Posted in General
by bruno
Leave a comment
October 14, 2015
This Christmas Why Not Adopt Dartmoor Pony Puddy?
ADOPT YOUNG DARTMOOR PONY PUDDY – and follow her progress all year round! To help fund its work to preserve the traditional Dartmoor pony on the Moor, the Dartmoor Pony Heritage Trust charity offers a “Pony Adoption Gift Pack”, suitable for anyone, of any age, who loves horses and ponies, but for whom buying a real one is simply not an option.
This year, in addition to its existing ponies George, Charlie, Smartie and Rolo, we have a new ‘girl’ who needs to be loved! Puddy is two years old and came to the Trust as a gift from Devon-based famous wildlife and adventure photographer, Tracey Elliot-Reep. Puddy represents the bloodlines and wonderful temperament of a herd that has now almost disappeared from the Moor. It is hoped that she will join the DPHT’s team of ponies that are the foundation of its ‘Ponies Inspiring People’ programmes – working with young people with challenging behaviour and disabilities – when she matures at 4-5 years old.
By buying an Adoption, you will be helping the DPHT to feed and care for the ponies based at its Devon Centre; and to give young moorland-bred ponies a basic education, so that they are more suitable for domestic and conservation grazing homes than coming straight off the Moor as wild, untouched animals.
Puddy playing with the ball
ADOPT A PONY FOR CHRISTMAS!
The cost is just £20 per year for UK residents: £25 for those who live abroad. Every Adoption Pack includes a beautiful line drawing and an adoption certificate and you’ll also receive updates on the development and progress of the pony you have chosen, over the following year.
Ponies George, Charlie, Smartie, Rolo – and now young Puddy – look forward to meeting you and to becoming part of your family! They live at the Dartmoor Pony Heritage Trust Centre, at Parke, Bovey Tracey in Devon.
Visitors are welcome on selected dates throughout the year – see the website or phone the Centre. Come along to groom and handle the ponies and find out all about them, follow their interesting lives, discover their true value and how important they are to the Dartmoor landscape.
Puddy is a great example of how good Dartmoor ponies are as family ponies and for riding, driving and conservation grazing: they are fundamental to the DPHT’s innovative ‘Ponies Inspiring People’ education programme. Some incredible achievements have been made by students through their work with these loving, gentle, patient but tough little ponies.
The Aim of the DPHT is to preserve the traditional Dartmoor pony on Dartmoor, for future generations to enjoy.
If you are interested in adopting a Dartmoor Pony please look up our website www.dpht.co.uk
Posted in General
by bruno
Leave a comment
August 14, 2015
NSPCC’s Gherkin Challenge Sponsored By Bennett Opie
Fine food producer and distributor Bennett Opie Ltd has announced that they will be a main sponsor for the NSPCC’s Gherkin Challenge, which takes place on Sunday 6thSeptember 2015. One of Opies’ long-standing and most popular lines are Cocktail Gherkins, so it is therefore fitting that Bennett Opie support The Gherkin Challenge. The money raised from the challenge will help support the charity’s work protecting children and young people across the UK and preventing abuse.
A team from Bennett Opie will also be limbering up to take part in the challenge, where participants climb 38 floors to the top of iconic London skyscraper, The Gherkin. It takes an average of 11 minutes to reach the top, during which time 26 children will have contacted the NSPCC’s ChildLine Service. Once at the top, runners can enjoy the panoramic views of the capital from the exclusive Searcy’s bar, whilst sipping on a well-deserved glass of bubbly, and if they wish, a cocktail gherkin!
Managing Director at Bennett Opie Limited, William Opie, said: “We are pleased to support the NSPCC and its fantastic Gherkin Challenge. It is so appropriate for us, given the association between the location of the event and one of our signature lines. As well as sponsoring the challenge, we have a team in training who will be competing against one another to see who reaches the top first, as well as who can raise the most money to help end child cruelty.”
NSPCC Head of Participation Events, Victoria Kellaway, said: “We’re delighted to have Bennett Opie on board as our sponsor for The Gherkin challenge – it’s a very fitting link to our much-loved challenge event at 30 St Mary Axe, which we all know as The Gherkin! We’re also thrilled that they will be entering a team to race to the top, helping to raise money to support our services like ChildLine, so that we can be there for more children and young people across the UK, whatever their worry, whenever they need help.”
Last year Opies sold almost 1.1million jars of gherkins, which if stacked end to end, would be 660 times higher than the Gherkin building.
To sponsor the team, visit https://www.justgiving.com/Opies-Gherkin/ . For further information or to register for The Gherkin Challenge as a team or individual, visit www.nspcc.org.uk/gherkin . Registrations will be open until 23:59 on Tuesday 1 September.
Posted in Food
by bruno
Leave a comment
« Older Entries
Recent Posts
T3 Ping Pong launches pink table for Cancer Research UK
South American Guyana to open forest talks thanks to Welsh support
ShareTheMiracle spreading kindness over Easter
Givey is Revolutionising UK Charity Fundraising
Sir Elton John renews his Patronage of STARS
Categories
Business
Education
Environment
Food
General
Health
Politics
The Internet
Uncategorized
Follow Us On TwitterMy TweetsResourcesRent office space London
Copyright 2015 PublicGoods.co.uk				 zeeFocus Theme
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem
