ratatat / FrontPage
ratatat
log inhelp
Get a free wiki
|
Try our free business product
WikiPages & Files
View
Edit
To edit this page,
request access to the workspace.
Already have an account? Log in!
FrontPage
Page history
last edited
by Tony Toole 6 years, 8 months ago
Welcome to the RATATAT Project Website
The JISC funded RATATAT project (Remote Access To Academic Trials And Testing) is based at Swansea Metropolitan University and aims to provide remote access for Masters Degree students to sophisticated laboratory experiments as part of an online course.
The issue that the project addresses is common to a number of specialist skills areas where the role of the specialist is crucial to an industry sector, but the total number of specialists needed is relatively limited. This leads to the problem that viable campus-based cohorts of postgraduate students studying the specialist skills can only be assembled if students travel significant distances to participate. This does happen, as in the case of the NDT courses at Swansea Metropolitan University, but it is at significant financial expense of the employers and significant personal time commitment by the students who are employees of those companies.
The project will explore how emerging web 2.0 technologies and existing computer communications technologies can be combined to allow students to carry out sophisticated practical laboratory assignments online.
The Ratatat project was funded by    as part of the Learning and Teaching Innovation Grant Programme
Using This Website
This website has been designed to host all the work in progress and documentation associated with the project. The site is navigated using the links in the SideBar on the right of the screen.
Further Information
email:
Project Director: Professor Kelvin Donne (ke.donne@smu.ac.uk)
Project Manager: Professor Tony Toole (tony.toole@e-college.ac)
Project Calendars
The Project calendar shows the schedule of meetings and events for the project and project team. The calendar for the project manager is for information about availability. Click on an item to view the details.
FrontPage
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (1)
Tony Toole said
at 8:44 am on Jun 8, 2009
Project Discussion Forum.
This area is available for general discussion and comments by anyone involved in the project or interested in the outcomes.
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
PBworks
/ Help
Terms of use / Privacy policy
About this workspace
Contact the owner /
RSS feed /
This workspace is public
Join this workspace
To join this workspace,
request access.
Already have an account? Log in!
Navigator
Loading…
SideBar
RATATAT Website Navigation
click on the links below
Home Page
Project Management
Work in Progress
Online Learning Environment
Online Practical Exercises
Experimental Page
Documentation
Project resources
NDT Resources
Equipment Manufacturer Links
Research Papers
British Institute of NDT Links
Project Communications
Project Deliverables
General information about the work of JISC can be found at: www.jisc.ac.uk
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
