RELOAD Project
home
- old website
- contact
Introduction
Welcome to the RELOAD web site. Things are changing. The web-site is undergoing an overhaul and a clean-up. If you wish to access the old web-site you can do so here. In the meantime we have provided the important links to the RELOAD tools
below.
Background
What is RELOAD?
RELOAD is a project funded under the JISC Exchange for Learning Programme (X4L).
The project focuses on the development of tools that are based on
emerging learning technology interoperability specifications. It is
managed by the University of Bolton with staff located at the University of Bolton and the University of Strathclyde.
The primary aims of this project are to:
facilitate the creation, sharing and reuse of learning objects and services
enhance the range of pedagogical approaches realisable through the use of lesson plans
These aims will be achieved through the production of a suite of
software tools for authoring and delivery of standard-compliant
learning objects incorporating comprehensive user guides and exemplar
resources. The tools will be of significant value to the JISC and wider
community, since they provide the crucial "missing link" which allows
users to author and transfer learning objects, in specification
compliant format, between authoring and design tools, local and
distributed digital repositories, and VLEs.
Tools & Downloads
The following are the tools created by the RELOAD project:
The Classic RELOAD Editor
This editor provides support for IMS Metadata, IEEE LOM, IMS Content Packaging 1.1.4, SCORM 1.2, and SCORM 2004. There are versions for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. It is Java Swing-based.
The Eclipse-based RELOAD Editor
This later release of the Reload Editor is based on the Eclipse Rich Client
Platform and supports IMS MD (versions 1.1, 1.2.1 and 1.2.4), IEEE LOM,
IMS CP (versions 1.1.1, 1.1.2 and 1.1.4) as well as SCORM 1.2 and
SCORM 2004 (3rd edition) specifications. There are versions for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.
Learning Design Editor
This editor provides support for IMS Learning Design version 1.0. It is Eclipse-based and there are versions for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. It is Java Swing-based.
SCORM 1.2 Player
The SCORM Player is a cross-platform desktop application that lets you "play" your SCORM 1.2 package.
Learning Design Player
The Learning Design Player is a cross-platform desktop application that lets you "play" your LD Unit of Learning.
Quick Links
Classic RELOAD Editor
Eclipse-based RELOAD Editor
Learning Design Editor
SCORM 1.2 Player
Learning Design Player
News
23 July 2008The RELOAD web-site is undergoing an overhaul. The old web-site can still be accessed here.
