REMAP
Browser does not support script.
Text only | Print | Website Feedback | University portal
REMAP
REMAP
Conferences
Documents
Links
Project Aims
Contact details
Project Director:
Ian Dolphin
Project Manager:
Richard Green
e-Services Integration Group
Academic Services
Brynmor Jones Library
The University of Hull
Cottingham Road
Hull HU6 7RX
UK
e-mail
r.green@hull.ac.uk
Partners
The REMAP project is funded by the Joint Information Systems
Committee and is being undertaken by the e-Services Integration
Group at the University of Hull and Spoken Word Services at Glasgow
Caledonian University.
The REMAP Project
The REMAP project is a project funded under the
auspices of the Joint Information Systems Committee 'Repositories
and Preservation' Programme. It is investigating the use of a
digital repository to support the embedding of records management
and digital preservation within the context of a UK Higher
Education institution.
Further details are to be found on the 'Project
Aims' page of this website.
RSS feed for this site
The rss feed for this
site is http://www.hull.ac.uk/remap/rss/rss.xml
Subscribe in order to get notifications when we update the
site.
News
Open repositories 2008 (04/08) The REMAP team
contributed a poster to the main OR08 conference and a paper in the
Fedora strand. These presentations can be located from the
'documents' page of this site.
Development work (03/08) The team is working on
infrastructural development to support RMDP (see below) with Fedora
repositories. To comply with our standards-based approach, this
work is centred on using the Apple Darwin Calendar Server and the
iCalendar standard.
Requirements gathering (11/07) The team has
spent the summer and early autumn gathering requirements for
Records Management and Digital Preservation (RMDP) from potential
users and collaborators. These are now being
correlated and a report will be produced shortly. We have recently
planned the first stage of our implementation process which will
see a persistence layer built above our Fedora repository with
messaging requirements specified in xCAL.
Project Plan (08/06/07) The approved Project
Plan is now available on our 'documents' page.
First steps (18/04/07) At the project start
meeting last Friday the team planned the User Requirements
Gathering phase of the project. This will last for six months and
will draw on input from staff at both Spoken Word Services and at
the University of Hull. It is intended that initial discussions
with participants will take place up to the end of May with
detailed needs gathering taking place in June and July.
Project start meeting (30/03/07) The REMAP
start meeting is now fixed for April 13th (hopefully not an
inauspicious date!). Shortly after that we should be able to
publish a draft timetable for deliverables and other milestones.We
have added an RSS feed to this site so that you can be notified of
updates (see text box above).
Project start (08/03/07) The REMAP project will
officially start on 1st April 2007 and run for two years. At the
moment the project team is busy arranging a start meeting. Watch
this space!
Accessibility ¦
FOI ¦ Legal ¦ Privacy ¦ © The University of Hull , Cottingham Road, Hull. HU6 7RX, +44 (0)1482
346311
