Refugee Loans | Logbook Loans
Home
About Us
Pros and Cons
Dealing With Bad Credit
Denied a Loan?
Logbook Loan Uses
Contact Us
It’s Easy to Release the Cash in Your Vehicle!
Thank you for visiting Refugee Loans! If bad credit prevents you from getting a loan
everywhere else, you are not alone. We have helped thousands of other customers with
bad credit, zero credit, and even those who are self-employed obtain a quick logbook
loan through their vehicle. To get started, just complete our simple online form and we'll
help you release your vehicle’s cash TODAY!
What is a Logbook Loan?
A logbook loan, also known as a V5 loan, is a type of short term loan secured against
the borrower’s vehicle. Logbook loans are meant for borrowers who cannot qualify for
traditional loans because of bad credit, and thus don’t include credit checks in the
application process.
Logbook loans can be accessed quickly and easily. As long as you own a vehicle and
have a sufficient income to meet the repayments, you can qualify and get your money
almost instantly. It doesn’t even matter if you are self-employed, have had arrears,
CCJs, repossessions, or bankruptcy in the past. Even if your present credit doesn’t
qualify you for standard loans, our vast network of logbook loan lenders are more than
happy to provide the service that you need!
Apply Now
First name:
Surname:
Telephone no:
Postcode:
Email
Call me back at:
Apply Now
How it Works?
Here at Refugee Loans, we have made getting a logbook loan extremely easy! First,
you just have to submit your details through our online application form. We need to
know the make and model of your car, the amount you want to borrow, and how we can
reach you to give you your free quote.
We will then find a matching lender based on the information you provided. After this,
we will let you know that we’ve found one and give you a FREE quote. If you are happy,
we can then schedule a meeting between you and the lender so you can get your cash
immediately. Just bring along your car and the requirements, and if everything passed
the lender’s criteria, you can finalise the terms of the loan. You need to read the fine
print very carefully before signing the bill of sale and handing over your logbook. Once
you are sure with the terms, all you need to do is sign the credit agreement and get your
cash within that same day!
With a logbook loan, you don’t have to worry about your car being pawned. You only
have to bring it so it can be evaluated, but you can keep on driving it during the full
duration of the loan, as long as you pay the instalments on time.
What are the Requirements?
In case you are wondering, logbook loan requirements are very simple and easy to
meet! For you to become eligible, you just need to be over 18 years of age, a UK
resident, and a legal owner of a working vehicle. This vehicle should be insured and
must be out of financing, in order to qualify, although some lenders may consider those
which have very little balance left.
The paperwork is not complicated either. Since there are no credit checks, all you need
is to submit the following:
Proof of ID
Proof of Income- pay stubs and certification from your employer, bank
statements if you are self-employed
Proof of Address- at least 6 months of utility bills on the same residence. (It
helps if you are listed on the electoral roll with the same address.)
Vehicle registration or V5 document (logbook)
Ministry of Transport (MOT) Test- this should be done annually to ensure that
your vehicle has passed the road safety standards.
Proof of insurance- whatever happens to your car during the loan period, you
will be fully responsible, as you remain the legal keeper of it.
Spare car keys
Borrow Between £500 and £25,000!
Here at Refugee Loans, you can borrow any amount between £500 and £25,000, which
is the largest borrowing limit you can find. Just let us know how much you earn, and
what type of vehicle you have, so we can give you an idea of how much you are eligible
to borrow.
Flexible Repayment Terms!
Have you ever experienced borrowing from a payday lender, and struggling to meet the
required lump sum payment? With a logbook loan, you’ll never have to force yourself
into a deal that you cannot afford. Let us know how much you can pay every week or
every month, and we can help you arrange a payment scheme that is easy on your
budget!
All Vehicles Accepted!
It doesn’t matter if you have a sports car, a van, a motorcycle, or a truck. With our huge
database of lenders, we can surely find one that accepts your particular car make and
model. Just enter your vehicle details into our contact form and we’ll do all the dirty
work!
Totally FREE Service!
So what’s the cost of our search and comparison service? None! There won’t be any
hidden charges or additional fees to your deal, ever! You won’t even be obliged to apply
through us. After getting your free quote, you can opt out at any time.
So what are you waiting for? Just accomplish our online form and get your FREE, NO-OBLIGATION logbook loan quote instantly!
Copyright © 2014 Refugeeeducation.co.uk, All rights reserved.
