Benefits of Joint Supplements for Dogs - Exploration For Change
Exploration For Change
View Sidebar
Recent Posts
How to Get Relief for Your Dog’s Itchy Skin
How to Stop Your Dog From Digging Holes in the Yard
Measures to Stop Your Dog From Nipping While Playing
Benefits of Joint Supplements for Dogs
How to Stop Your Dog From Barking
Categories
dog behavior
dog care
Benefits of Joint Supplements for Dogs
Benefits of Joint Supplements for Dogs
Older dogs need special care and attention. Just like human beings, dogs face multiple issues as they age with time. You will know your dog is aging when it starts sleeping more or becomes tired sooner than it used to. Apart from these tell-tale signs, dogs face many other health problems that are quite similar to humans. One of them is arthritis.
Joint pains are a major problem with many older dogs, more so when they are bulky and their bones cannot carry their weight any longer.
That is why it is necessary to give your dog calcium supplements from a certain age. Calcium strengthens the bones and prevents bone-related health issues during their old age. Another important factor that plays a role in worsening the effects of arthritis in dogs is their weight.
It is essential for you to take your old dog for regular walks or make them run around on your lawn or within the house. Exercise helps greatly in maintaining a stable body weight and also helps stiff joints.
Joint supplements are recommended by most vets when they visit an aged dog. The reason why dog joint supplements are a must is that these supplements help in reversing the effects of arthritis to a great extent.
Some dogs have been found to be up and walking within weeks of being given joint supplements. The best joint supplement that is currently available in the market has the components ‘glucosamine’ and ‘chondroitin’.
Both these substances occur naturally within your dog’s body and when supplied in the form of a chewable tablet, these are absorbed easily into the bones, helping with cartilage building and lubrication of joints. Glucosamine helps with cartilage formation while chondroitin takes care of joint lubrication.
There are numerous benefits of giving your dog joint supplements. Some vets recommend natural joint supplements for old dogs even when they are not suffering from osteoarthritis.
This helps in preventing any joint troubles as the dog gets older. Some of the main advantages of giving your dog a glusosamine supplement are:
Prevention of arthritis onset: Once your dog starts showing symptoms of arthritic troubles, it is going to be very difficult turning back the wheels. If you want to avoid the long route, start early with the supplements and save your dog from early onset of arthritis.
No side effects: Joint supplements which contain naturally occurring sugars like glucosamine and chondroitin are absolutely safe and do not have any side effects whatsoever. You can continue these supplements for as long as you want without worrying about harmful effects.
Getting through the winters: The winter season is traumatic for old dogs with arthritis, since joint issues are aggravated when temperatures are low. In case you do not have central heating or cannot afford an osteo-therapy hot bed for your dog, it is all the more important that you give your dog joint supplements to lessen the pain during the winters.
Active dog, happy dog: When your dog feels lesser stiffness and pain around their joints, they will be more active and much happier around the house.
Comments are closed
Copyright © 2017 Exploration For Change. All Rights Reserved.
Designed by WPZOOM
