RIDIR
Browser does not support script.
Text only | Print | Website Feedback | University portal
RIDIR
RIDIR
Conferences
Documents
Links
Project Aims
Contact details
Project Director:
Ian Dolphin
Project Manager:
Richard Green
e-Services Integration Group
Academic Services
Brynmor Jones Library
The University of Hull
Cottingham Road
Hull HU6 7RX
UK
e-mail
r.green@hull.ac.uk
Partners
The RIDIR project is funded by the Joint Information Systems
Committee and is being undertaken by the e-Services Integration
Group at the University of Hull and Rightscom Limited.
The RIDIR Project
The RIDIR project (Resourcing IDentifier
Interoperability for Repositories) is a project funded under the
auspices of the Joint Information Systems Committee 'Repositories
and Preservation' Programme. It is investigating the requirements
for, and benefits of, the clear use of persistent identifiers in
order to facilitate interoperability between digital repositories
of different types.
Further details are to be found on the 'Project
Aims' page of this website.
News
Final Report and Demonstrator (08/10/08) The
JISC have given us permission to release the RIDIR Final Report and
this can be downloaded from the 'Documents' section of this
site.  Please get in touch if a copy of the Demonstrator DVD
would be useful to you.  The Demonstrator is supplied for use
with a downloadable Virtual Machine.
Final Report and Demonstrator (06/08) The RIDIR
Final Report and the software Demonstrator were submitted to the
JISC at the end of June 2008.  The lengthy report makes a
number of recommendations ranging from national strategy to
repository implementation.  The Final Report will be made
available through this website and through the University of Hull
Institutional Repository as soon as it is approved by the JISC.
Implementation (11/07) The early autumn has
been spent turning our identified use cases into a more detailed
form to aid implementation.  Our developers have started on
production of components for the demonstrator.
Workshops report and use cases (14/09/07)
The report on the two national workshops and the use cases that
were considered for the RIDIR Project is now available in the
'Documents' section of this site.  This document also includes
the subsequent proposal put to the JISC detailing two possible ways
forward, and their response.  The proposal includes the five
use cases that will be considered in detail.
Focus Group meetings (18/04/07) At the RIDIR
start meeting earlier in the week (16/04/07) it was decided that
the foundation for the project's work should be established at two
focus groups. The first such meeting will be held in London,
probably in late May, when invited repository practitioners will
discuss issues of interoperability so that we can establish the
role that identifiers play, or should play. The second focus group
will be held in Manchester towards the end of June where an invited
group of identifier experts will discuss the outcome of the first
meeting and how identifiers might be managed in order to best
accommodate the needs of repository interoperability.
Project start (08/03/07) The RIDIR project will
officially start on 1st April 2007 and run for one year. At the
moment the project team is busy arranging a start meeting. Watch
this space!
Accessibility ¦
FOI ¦ Legal ¦ Privacy ¦ © The University of Hull , Cottingham Road, Hull. HU6 7RX, +44 (0)1482
346311
