Welcome to the project
This website is dedicated to our Crystal Palace Project, which investigates the role of historical reconstruction in helping audiences imagine  and engage with the past. We are particularly interested in contrasting the opportunities and effects of immersive techniques developed in the Victorian period with those afforded by today’s digital visualisations. The main element of our project is a recreation of a small section of the giant Crystal Palace built in Sydenham  in 1854: the so-called Pompeian Court was a complete life-size model of an ancient Roman house, housing a collection of copies of Roman paintings. The house and the paintings were based on the ruins preserved by the eruption of Vesuvius in the Roman town of Pompeii. It was destroyed when the Palace burnt down in 1936. Phase 1 of our project was funded by JISC and involved building a virtual 3D model of the Court in Second Life, which housed a digitised collection of the material that was in it.
Having built and trialled the model with various user groups, we have recently completed Phase 2 of the project. Supported by the University of Bristol’s Impact Development Fund, we have been concentrating on making our model more accessible and user-friendly so that we can maximise its usefulness and share the resources we have built up. Our twin focuses are the education and heritage sectors. We started by working with Chantry High School in Ipswich to create a series of learning activities for Year 10 students, working in and around the model, and have now trialled and developed those activities in several Bristol schools.  Meanwhile, in order to make the model accessible to the local community and visitors to the park we have created a video installation for the Crystal Palace Museum.
On this site you can find out about both phases of the project through the relevant web pages and track our progress through our two blogs (see links on the right). As our project is all about sharing ideas and knowledge we’re always very glad to receive any comments or feedback, so please do get in touch by leaving a comment below.
Nic and Shelley (Lucien & Gwendoline)
17 Responses to “Welcome to the project”
Käsekuchen Says:
October 14, 2010 at 2:10 pm
Have you considered to installing some form of social bookmark buttons to your posts? It will be smoother for me to save such a good blog.
Shelley Hales Says:
October 18, 2010 at 6:46 pm
Hi,
Good point! I’ll ask Nic. Thanks for reading and many apologies for slow speed at which new blog is starting up.
Yours
Shelley
Max Headroom Says:
January 21, 2011 at 8:23 am
This is great! I need a
bit more time to go over everything at my leisure. I will definitely be able to give you some important feedback as this topic is very close to my heart.
Pathfinder Lester Says:
March 1, 2011 at 4:48 pm
Hi Lucien,
I was just on ReactionGrid and noticed you fly by.
I saw that you were hypergridded in (your name was listed as Lucien.Kranfel @crystalpalace.metaverseworlds.com:8002).
I had never heard of an opensim grid called “crystalpalace” before, so I googled around.
Found this blog.
Wow.
What a great project.
Are you up and running now on Opensim?
I’d love to visit your grid.
What’s your hypergrid address?
Also, I bring folks on hypergrid jump tours of different grids.
I’d love to bring folks to CrystalPalace.
More info about my tours here: http://becunningandfulloftricks.com/hypergrid-adventurers-club/
Maggie Secara Says:
October 23, 2011 at 6:50 pm
Hi guys,
I’m disappointed! I click on Teleport Now and absolutely nothing happens! This is the first time I’ve used Second Life, so it could just be me. Any thoughts?
Maggie
Maggie Secara Says:
October 23, 2011 at 7:05 pm
Sorry, never mind. It was just me. Now if only I could figure out how to use this thing. sigh I’ll keep trying.
Shelley Hales Says:
October 25, 2011 at 10:34 am
Hi Maggie,
I hope you have got the hang of it now. Give us a shout if you need any help!
Shelley
architects in coimbatore,architects in tamilnadu Says:
January 15, 2013 at 7:41 am
I was recommended this website through my cousin.
I am now not positive whether this submit is written by way
of him as no one else realize such designated
about my difficulty. You are incredible! Thank you!
thegroovyhistorian Says:
December 9, 2013 at 11:42 pm
very interesting !!!!
Shelley Hales Says:
January 7, 2014 at 5:57 pm
Thanks so much. Sorry for the delay in responding!
GroovyHistorian Says:
January 7, 2014 at 5:57 pm
your welcome ! perhaps check my blog out and stay groovy !
Christie Romano Says:
February 28, 2014 at 2:09 am
I love this place, I live just at the bottom of the hill where the crystal palace was. There is so little information about it on the web, its such a shame. It would be amazing to recreate it with the gardens as they were originally! in Real life and SL
Shelley Hales Says:
March 4, 2014 at 9:45 am
Be careful what you wish for! Would be interesting to know what living on the edge of the park was like when the Palace was in full swing. But, yes, it was an utterly amazing place and the urge to experience a recreation of it is almost irresistable. We continue to work on alternative ways of making the Palace experience more accessible to people. We will keep people posted. Thanks so much for leaving us a message.
serviced apartments boavista palace porto Says:
October 6, 2014 at 10:10 am
Facilities like ADSL internet with desktop, Foxtel cable TV with over 50 channels, swimming pool, executive room, fully equipped kitchen in serviced apartment Melbourne fulfill
your expectations in terms of yours stay. The serviced apartments are generally
positioned in those areas that are nearby to the transport facilities.
Are you thinking of buying property in London as a pied a terre
or an investment property in London. Although luxury hotels in Melbourne are a popular accommodation option in such cases,
but nowadays the concept of short stay apartment and serviced apartments are being popular and
perfect alternative of luxury hotel.
Beccha Says:
January 5, 2015 at 10:04 pm
it is a lovely site. But you need to move the tree NeXT to “the House of the Tragic Poet”. it is interfering With the Boards.
Robert Smallwood Says:
July 10, 2015 at 3:30 am
Enjoyed your site.
It is so well done that I can provide no comments on suggested improvements.
abby Says:
December 5, 2015 at 9:36 am
i like it, it’s very nice
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Search:
Welcome to the project
About the Crystal Palace
Why Virtual Worlds?
Phase 2 – IDF (current)
BLOG – project progress
Evaluation Report
Phase 1 – JISC (Complete)
Aims and objectives
Who is this project for?
Competition
Paradata
Outcomes
BLOG – project progress
The Project Team
Papers & Presentations
Visit The Model
Links & contacts
Gallery
Video tour of our 3D model
Blog at WordPress.com.
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).
Post to
Cancel
