The Design Studio / SCONUL DL
The Design Studio
log inhelp
WikiPages & Files
View
SCONUL DL
Page history
last edited
by Charlie Inskip 3 years, 1 month ago
Society of College, National and University Libraries (SCONUL)
Introduction
Contacts:
Alison MacKenzie (alison.mackenzie@edgehill.ac.uk)
Ann Rossiter (ann.rossiter@sconul.ac.uk)
SCONUL is the main representative body for academic libraries in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. Its members include all university libraries, UK national libraries and many college libraries and specialist institutions. It works with its members to promote awareness of the role of academic libraries in supporting research excellence and student achievement and employability, and represents their views and interests to governments and regulators. It helps academic libraries collaborate to deliver services efficiently including through shared services, and to share knowledge and best practice. Its stakeholder communities include its members, fellow academic support professionals, and the academic staff, researchers and students who access the services and resources of its member libraries.
2. SCONUL and Digital Literacy
SCONUL takes a lead role in supporting information professionals to deliver innovative information literacy teaching within HE institutions, and to contextualise this within institutional learning and teaching strategies. The activities of the Working Group on Information Literacy, in particular their recent work on the 7 Pillars to develop a 'digital literacy lens' are designed to encourage debate and, as part of the process review the capabilities of information professionals working in technology rich environments and assess how their roles can become more effective in support of learners, academics and researchers .  Work has already progressed by SCONUL  on the digital research environment and on the information seeking behaviour of researchers. Collaborations with the Research Information Network  have led to a number of initiatives and published outputs.  The current strands of activity are described on the 'Spreading information literacy about' web pages. These are being steered by the Research Information and Digital Literacies Coalition (RIDLs), a coalition of a broad range of organsiations and associations with a role to play in supporting research.  For more information have a look at http://www.researchinfonet.org/infolit/ridls/. The outputs of this programme which relate closely to the interests of SCONUL may be found at the Research Information Literacy and Digital Scholarship (RILADS) website, detailed here.
SCONUL has a select number of key objectives to achieve as part of its contribution to the Digital Literacy Programme, specifically to
• engage with peer organisations to position information literacy within the broader context of digital literacies
• to influence members and stakeholders in developing the appropriate skills and behaviours to maximise the benefits of working in a digital environment
• Deliver a step change in our own organisational digital literacy, focussing on improving our online communications, stakeholder engagement and our digital presence.
3. Professional development
SCONUL works in partnership with a number of other organisations who represent information and related professions, and specifically within the UK the Chartered Institute of Library & Information Professionals (CILIP), the professional body for all information workers. Professional development within CILIP is based on a Body of Professional Knowledge, which describes what individual members should acquire to be successful practitioners. It is implicit that effective use of information is key to becoming an effective practitioner in the digital environment and it is envisaged that as the programme of work evolves the benefits accrued by SCONUL members will also be available to the wider membership of CILIP.
4. Baselining digital literacy provision
SCONUL has produced a summary of its baseline survey of members, carried out in January-February 2012.
It is the intention of SCONUL to work with its members to further develop the digital literacy lens of the 7 pillars and to map it against the current range of activities. More information on this will be posted as the process progresses.
SCONUL was also represented at the ALT-C 2012 conference in Manchester, with a brief presentation of the lens.
5. Guide to Implementing the UKPSF in the Digital University
SCONUL has been contributing case studies for the JISC and Professional Associations Guide to implementing the UKPSF in the Digital University. The case studies provide examples of activities and support aimed at developing digital literacy skills in academic staff and are mapped against the UKPSF.
6. Mapping Resources to Competences
This downloadable document  Mapping resources to competencies.pdf explores resources and developments around the JISC Developing Digital Literacies (DDL) programme through a SCONUL lens. It considers the outcomes of the SCONUL baseline survey (2012) and maps key findings from the survey to relevant resources available through the JISC Design Studio resource, which collates project and association outputs from the DDL programme. The DDL programme has generated a large number of resources. This document is designed to help SCONUL members focus on those most relevant to them in the pursuit of developing digital literacies.
The threads that tie these outputs together are based on taking a strategic perspective to institutional change based on ‘inter-departmental multi-stakeholder conversations’ – involving not only librarians but other services as well as faculty and students in a unified process which acknowledges that digital literacies are not the sole ‘property’ of one department but the responsibility of the wider academic community. These conversations can be facilitated through careful examination of many of the links to resources in this document – and many more can be found on the JISC Design Studio.
Developing networks and collaborations through these conversations will enable a cooperative stance and an informed approach is more likely to amplify the voice of the library in these conversations. This will help maintain librarians’ relevance in the changing information landscape. Following and citing good practice examples will continue to contribute towards making good practice common practice, and adopting and adapting formal CPD frameworks will contribute towards strategically meeting these aims. Using up-to-date tools for staff and student development will keep libraries on the cutting edge of development and delivery of digital literacies, and the more widespread use and continuing development of our Seven Pillars, and the new Digital Literacy Lens, will help to unify the sector and provide our stakeholders with a consistent message.
A discussion of this work can be found in the current issue of CILIP Update(December 2013)
SCONUL DL
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
Tags:
JISC DDL, digital literacy, professional associations, professional bodies, SCONUL, information literacy, information skills, 7 Pillars, Digital literacy lens, Working Group on Information Literacy, Research Information Network, CILIP, Body of Professional Knowledge
SCONUL DL tags changed
SideBar
Home
About the Design Studio
Accessing the Design Studio
Developing Digital Literacies
Developing digital literacies in the curriculum
Developing digital literacies for digital scholars and researchers
Developing digital literacies for employability
Developing digital pioneers
Developing digitally literate institutions
Developing your digital literacies
Curriculum Change and Transformation
Curriculum Challenges
Curriculum Processess
Curriculum Technologies
Curriculum Design & Delivery programme
Curriculum Design Institutional Stories
Transforming Assessment & Feedback
Assessment & Feedback Programme
Assessment & Feedback Topics
Assessment & Feedback Tools and Resources
Embedding Benefits
About the Embedding Benefits programme
View All Tags
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
