Galactic Central
About This Site
What's New
Links
As with so many projects, this one started off in one direction
and rapidly got diverted into a completely different one!
The web-site was originally dedicated to bibliographies, specifically
those related to science fiction and fantasy authors, and introduced a
list of fiction magazines (with particular emphasis on which had or had
not been indexed) as a useful reference. However, this latter list grew
and grew with time (particularly after I joined the FictionMags
mailing list) and it now occupies about 95% of the website (and 99% of
the effort devoted to it!). At the same time I got more and more involved
in actually indexing the magazines that hadn't been indexed, and now host
many of the key magazine indexes.
The website is therefore divided into three (very unequal) sections:
This is the section that attempts to document all known fiction magazines,
in varying levels of detail.  As there are over 9400 of these, they
are also organised into various different subsets for those who, for instance,
are not wildly interested in 19th century magazines.  A fuller description
of these can be found by following the link to the left, or for those who
want to jump straight to the chase, the following are the main subdivisions:
All
Magazines
Pulp
Magazines
SF &
Fantasy Magazines
Image
Gallery
New/Improved
Images
This section provides an interface to all the key magazine indexes, particularly
the online indexes belonging to the FictionMags Index Family, as well as
providing illustrated checklists for all the key magazines represented.
Again, full details can be found by following the link to the left, but
some of the key pages are:
Science Fiction,
Fantasy, & Weird Fiction Index
Crime, Mystery &
Gangster Fiction Index
Western & Frontier
Fiction Index
The final section covers bibliographies devoted to a single author (or
at most a small number of authors), concentrating on those who have devoted
most of their output to the science fiction, fantasy and horror genres.
This site is also the proud host of a number of other projects that I heartily
recommend:
The quasi-official website of Brian
Stableford.
Bill Thom's Coming
Attractions Newsletter Archive from July 2002 to October 2011.
A static mirror of Terry Gibbons Visco site
A partial mirror of the old PulpTrader
site (magazine matrices & partial thumbnails only).
A partial mirror of the late John Martin's Ellis
Parker Butler tribute site.
Selected articles of related interest from:
Bud Webster (Anthopology 101
and Past Masters columns)
Peter Enfantino
The Crime Fighters by
W.O.G. Lofts and Derek Adley (under construction)
Authors
Included in LITERARY WRITINGS IN AMERICA: A BIBLIOGRAPHY by Dennis
Lien
The Science Fiction
Pornography Index by Kenneth R. Johnson
The Fantasy
Gothicks Index by Kenneth R. Johnson
I am extremely interested to
hear of any bibliographies or magazine indexes that are not listed herein, particularly
if they are still available, or even to hear from anyone else who shares my
obsession for bibliographies.  Please note, however, that, with the exception
of my own Galactic Central series of bibliographies, I cannot
supply copies of any of the bibliographies mentioned herein. Similarly, in general,
I cannot supply any of the magazines featured on this site (nor copies of items
published therein).
I am also interested to hear from anyone who has any form of project related
to science fiction/magazine bibliography/indexing that needs a home on the web.
Hoping to hear from you!
Phil Stephensen-Payne (
),
Galactic Central Publications
Site last updated: 23-Jan-2017
