Icodeon Labs | Document Style Web Services for e-Learning
Search
Home
Product
News
Support
Contact
Icodeon Labs
Document Style Web Services for e-Learning
Briefings
Which style of WSDL should I use?
Read...
Reap the benefits of document style Web services.
Read...
Applying Design Issues and Patterns in Web Services.
Read...
Create web services using Apache AXIS and Castor.
Read...
Creating Web Services with Apache Axis.
Read...
Performance Testing of Web Services.
Read...
Web Services Interoperability Basic Profile.
Read...
Content Object Communication Data Model.
Read...
Document Style Web Services in e-Learning
Web services is the name for a technology that enables computer programs to exchange
messages.
Web services provide a common language for message exchange. The exchange of messages
will work even if computer programs are written using different programming languages
and are widely separated across the Internet.
Web services are the lingua franca
of the Internet age.
Project
This project describes an approach to designing, building and testing a particular
style of web service: the document literal wrapped style.
Web services built using this approach provide the benefit of complete self-description,
standards conformance, and robustness in the face of changing requirements.
The project takes a design led approach with all web service code generated from
XML design files.
Funded by JISC under the
Saving Private Data project.
The project uses web service style called the document literal wrapped web service
style, and the code generation is to the Java programming language.
Benefits | Outline | What's Related | Live Demo
The work has been funded under the JISC e-Learning Program to sustain techniques,
skills, technology and lessons learned from prior work with web service design.
Key Output: Project Narrative
Download from SourceForge.Net
Web services built using this approach afford the following benefits:
Web service code is generated from XML design documents, ensuring design led development.
With XML documents as foundational design documents, web services can be generated
in different programming languages. The approach is platform neutral. Icodeon
have used the techniques described with both Java and C# programming languages.
Web service operations and the service messages are completely self-describing.
This ensures that the web service can be discovered and automatically conmsumed
by tools and clients.
The web service is standards compliant against the Web Services Interoperability
profile. This means that the web service can be integrated with other web services
technologies, within service oriented architectures and web services orchestrations.
The web service is robust against future requirements changes. Changes can
be made to the messages that the service sends or receives without breaking exisiting
clients and consumers.
Project Outline & Context
The project describes an approach to web service design for a service that sends
and recieves documents according to a schema for the "Content Object Communication
Datamodel" published under the IEEE 1484.11.3 specification.
The IEEE schema is an XML binding for the "Computer Managed Instruction Datamodel"
in the widely deployed SCORM e-Learning profile.
The project has the following structure:
First, a web services description for the operations of the web service is designed
in XML. The XML document is used for code generation of the web service, using a
WSDL-to-Java tool.
Second, schema descriptions for the documents that the web service will send and
recieve are defined in XML. The XML schema document is used for code generation
of the data model used by the web service, using an XSD-to-Java tool.
The generated Java code is combined and the web service is deployed using the Apache
AXIS web services framework.
The web service is tested using functional testing, load/stress testing and conformance
testing.
A generic AJAX client for document literal wrapped style is built as a Java Script
object. The generic client is sub-classed to a specific client for the particular
web service.
What's Related
The following projects, some with various strands of JISC funding relate to this
work:
The techniques developed in this project are now being applied to new areas. At
the IMS Quaterly Meeting July 2007, Icodeon demonstrated the use of the IMS Learning
Tools Interoperability Specification to
integrate the Icodeon SCORM run time into the SAKAI learning platform. The
integration used code generation techiques to build document literal wrapped web
services. The integration also used web services to exchange SCORM tracking data
as IEEE 1484.11.3 schema XML documents.
Some work on using
web services with SCORM tracking data as IEEE 1484.11.3 schema elements
has recently been added to the ADL Community Website. This work uses remote procedure
call (RPC) style web services. The ADL project provides a compare/contrast with
document literal wrapped style web services.
Initial work on web service design began with the
ASSIS project with the Sun Microsystems Centre of Excellence in e-Larning
at the University of Hull.
Refactoring of web service design to the document literal wrapped style began with
Making Tracks project at with the NRICH and Millenium Mathematics programme
at the University of Cambridge.
The COVARM reference model project has made
extensive use of design led development to develop document based web services.
The Repository Metadata and Management
project at the University of Hull has been informed by the work on Document
Literal Wrapped web service design.
Live Online Demonstrator
An online demonstrator that uses AJAX clients to work with document literal wrapped
web services is available on the
main Icodeon website.
Launch a course. During the running of the course AJAX clients work to exchange
documents with web services. When you are ready, press the "Exit" button to leave
the course. [Click thumbnail for larger image].
When prompted to view the SCORM tracking data, press the "Yes" button.
Press the "Download" button. An AJAX client calls a web service and SCORM tracking
data as IEEE 1484.11.3 schema XML is returned.
Icodeon Ltd
July 2007
Project Narrative
Techiques, tools and comment:
Narrative
Download
Released under the Mozilla Public License for Open Source:
sourceforge.net
Source Code
Public Subversion Source Code Access:
SubVersion
Icodeon Labs
Live wiki, disucssions and issues. Talk back on:
Icodeon Labs
Copyright 2004-2007 Icodeon Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Icodeon Ltd
St Johns Innovation Centre
Cambridge, UK
Top | Home | Contact
s
