Gooii :: Website Design Nottingham, Programming, iPhone, iPad and Android App Developer, Midlands, UK - Website Design Nottingham, Programming, iPhone and iPad App Developer, Midlands, UK Gooii :: Website Design Nottingham, Programming, iPhone, iPad and Android App Developer, Midlands, UK
Website design Nottingham, web programming and development company. Gooii website design Nottingham, web design company, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, Derby, Derbyshire, Leicester, Leicestershire, London, East of England, North of England, South of England, West Country, Wales Scottland, Ireland, UK. We produce, websites, cd-roms, corporate id, logos, design, programming, digital, print, digital, iPhone, app, app design, iPad, mobile, Android, android app design, iOS, Flash, content managements systems, apple, microsoft, charity, education, corporate, VR, Virtual Reality, VR apps, Virtual Reality apps, VR video, virtual reality video
HomeAboutPortfolioBlogServicesAppsSectorsContactgooii
email: hello@gooii.com or call: 0115 959 8044
News
Gooii Releases First Virtual Reality App
Drive VR
Gooii are proud to announce the release of the Virtual Reality app ‘Drive VR’. Commissioned by the Safer Roads Partnership, DriveVR is a massive collaboration between Gooii’s talented team of project managers, designers, photographers and app coders. The app also features actors from Nottingham’s Television Workshop, directors, sound technicians, police, ambulance crews and stunt drivers. DriveVR is an iOS and Android app store first and uses innovative Virtual Reality technology to simulate real-world driving situations.
The app allows players to choose and customise a character and explore their social media timeline before encountering multiple driving events. Inspiration came from hard hitting road safety commercials, computer games, and time-travel films.
We can’t wait for everyone to see this app, so please download and share it now: gooii.com/DriveVR
Posted in: News
| Date: 9th February 2017 | Author:
http://www.gooii.com/website-app-design-nottingham/news/gooii-release-first-virtual-reality-app/
1/50
About
Who Do They Think They Are?
NOTTINGHAM / MIDLANDS / UK / WORLDWIDE
Gooii Limited is a Nottingham based website design and app development agency. We boast a team of talented designers, programmers and project managers all of whom offer a highly professional service for all our clients. We produce websites, iPhone, iPad and Android apps as well as Visual and Corporate Identity. Our experience and creative excellence, together with a diverse skill set, are the qualities that will provide a definitive solution for your organisation. We’re extremely proud of the work we do and with each job we strive to produce the best work of our careers.
Running for over 15 years we’ve accumulated some great clients and worked on some really exciting projects. To find out more about Gooii, explore the site or feel free to get in touch.
http://www.gooii.com/about/
Portfolio
Thumbnails: On | Off
Filter by sector: All | Commercial | Culture and Heritage | Education | Org & Gov
Filter by type: All | Web | Mobile | Print
DriveVR Virtual Reality App Development
New Virtual Reality App
DriveVR is the first iPhone and Android virtual reality app development of its kind. DriveVR allows you to safely explore real-life driving situations via fully immersive VR. Your decisions could change your character’s life and the lives of everyone around them forever.
Gooii’s role in the development of this innovative VR app includes: App concept and content creation, design and photography and iOS and Android app programming. We produced the Virtual Reality video segments in association with our client The Safer Roads Partnership, part of the Worcestershire and West Mercia police force.
The Drive VR virtual reality app works with ‘Google Cardboard’ compatible headsets, readily available from as little as a pound. The app is fully functional without a headset, using a compatible iOS or Android mobile device.
Download the DriveVR app for iOS and Android by visiting: gooii.com/DriveVR
Posted in: Portfolio
| Date: 9th February 2017 | Author:
| Sector: Commercial, Education, Mobile, Org and Gov
http://www.gooii.com/website-app-design-nottingham/portfolio/drive-vr-virtual-reality-app-development/
1/54
DriveVR Virtual Reality App Development
The 44 Music - Logo and WordPress Website Design
iMuseum - Website Design and Programming
Royal Armouries - 'Collections' Website Design and Build: BETA
BBC RESBuilder - Website Design and Build
Javoo Dementia App - User eXperience and Design
National Maritime Museum - HD Image explorer
Interactive Resources - Website Design and Build
iR Memory Match iPad App
The Martin High School - Responsive Website
The University of Cambridge 'Culture Finder' Website and Web App
'Patrick Goff' Responsive Website
'Never Fade Records' Website and Logo Design
Radius Systems – ‘Aeon Locator’ Android and Web App
'The Adventures of Biker Jack' iPhone and Android App
Museum of London 'Tag London' Website Design and Build
Museum of London 'London Street Views 1840' Website Design and Programming
JISC Historical Texts Website Design and Coding
'Wipeout Wall' Android and Amazon Kindle Fire Apps
Royal Museums Greenwich 'Search Collections' and 'Collections Tagger' Kiosk
Dragon-i Toys Website Design
University of Cambridge Museums - Discoveries Website Design
Fab-Phonics 'Rap and Tap' App for iPhone and iPad
'CRS RecApp' iPhone App
E2BN 'What Makes A Hero?' iPad App
iStudyArt iPhone App
The 'Find a Museum' Mobile App and Website
Culture Grid Website and Search Interface
Flash Stories Converted to iPad Friendly HTML5
Primary Games 'Super Tiles' iPhone and iPad Apps
Primary Games Wipeout Wall Apps
'IWM Scan and Share' iPhone and Android App
Primary Games 'Stop The Clock' Apps
The Baring Archive 'ING Risks and Rewards' Website
The Superman Homepage iPhone, Android, Kindle and Blackberry App
Royal Museums Greenwich 'Collections Online' Website and Touch Screen Pods
'History's Heroes' Website and Games
Climate Action Tracker Website
The 'Find a Library' Mobile App
The Fab-Phonics 'Up, Up and Away', 'Where's Whatsit' and 'Space Blasters' Apps for iPhone and iPad
UMIS 'Search The Hidden Collections' Website
Fab-Phonics 'Road Block' App for iPhone and iPad
'Eggs On Legs' iPhone and iPad Apps
Equation – 'Respect Not Fear' Website
Collections Connect Website and Management System
Ghostblasters iPhone and iPad Apps
Multiple Wipeout iPhone and iPad Apps
Gabrielle Aplin 'Never Fade EP' Cover Design
Towards Maturity Benchmark Centre Website
Gabrielle Aplin 'Acoustic EP' Cover Design
Paper Stone Recording Studio Website
BBC & JISC – Century Share
N Power: 'Little Green Fingers' Games
Historical Association Website
View all
Blog
PlayStation VR - VR App Design
As well as building apps for Google Cardboard VR, Gooii are excited about the prospect of developing for PlayStation VR (PSVR). I have to admit I was a little dubious about Sony’s first foray into virtual reality but the thing just blew me away. The headset itself is light, comfortable and looks futuristic in a ‘Back To The Future II’ kind of way. Its only real downside is the spaghetti junction of wires used to hook up to the PS4, junction box and TV (second screen), but if Sony had to find a way to make the device (relatively) affordable this seems to be the best solution.
Putting on the headset genuinely feels like “you’re going in”, reminiscent of old films like ‘Tron’ or ‘Lawnmower Man’. The 3D effect is also superb, everything you see feels solid and real and, despite the PSVR lower resolution when compared to most TVs, or the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive for that matter, this is quickly put aside when the device takes over and transports you to a new world.
PSVR feels like a snapshot of VR’s future where slimmer, lighter, higher resolution headsets will be on the way in the next 3-5 years but Sony’s first attempt at Virtual Reality completely nails it and has to be experienced to be believed.
If you would like to talk to Gooii about developing a VR app for your business, please get in touch.
Posted in: Blog
| Date: 18th October 2016 | Author:
http://www.gooii.com/website-app-design-nottingham/blog/playstation-vr-vr-app-design/
1/126
Services
Gooii In-House Services and Skills
Website Design and Programming
Design
Bespoke website programming
WordPress customisation
PHP, Java and JavaScript
Design, Illustration and Animation
Print Design
Corporate Identity
Logo Design
Stand and Exhibition Design
App Design and Programming
Apple iOS
iPhone and iPad
Google Android
Objective C
Java
JavaScript
Flash ActionScript
Games and Activities
Applications
Interactive Whiteboards
Museum Stands and Touch Screen Pods
1/1
Apps
DriveVR Virtual Reality App Development
New Virtual Reality App
DriveVR is the first iPhone and Android virtual reality app development of its kind. DriveVR allows you to safely explore real-life driving situations via fully immersive VR. Your decisions could change your character’s life and the lives of everyone around them forever.
Gooii’s role in the development of this innovative VR app includes: App concept and content creation, design and photography and iOS and Android app programming. We produced the Virtual Reality video segments in association with our client The Safer Roads Partnership, part of the Worcestershire and West Mercia police force.
The Drive VR virtual reality app works with ‘Google Cardboard’ compatible headsets, readily available from as little as a pound. The app is fully functional without a headset, using a compatible iOS or Android mobile device.
Download the DriveVR app for iOS and Android by visiting: gooii.com/DriveVR
Posted in: Apps
| Date: 9th February 2017 | Author:
| Sector: Commercial, Education, Mobile, Org and Gov
http://www.gooii.com/website-app-design-nottingham/portfolio/drive-vr-virtual-reality-app-development/
1/24
Sectors
Who We Work For
Private Sector
Large Corporations and Bluechip Clients
Small to Medium Businesses (SME)
Publishers
International Clients
The Music Industry
Public Sector
Museums, Libraries and Archives
Culture and Heritage
Education
Local Government
Charities and Not-For-Profit Organisations
Health Sector
1/1
Contact
Need to get hold of Gooii? Here’s how…
We welcome enquiries or comments from all over the world, so whether you need a quote, to talk about an existing job or need advice on a forthcoming project, please contact us in one of the following ways:
Gooii Ltd. 1st Floor, Unit 5, 4 Castle Boulevard, Nottingham, NG7 1FB (Back Entrance on Isabella Street)
Company Registered in England and Wales No: 4187500, VAT No: 809 3478 08
http://www.gooii.com/contact/
© 2017 Gooii Ltd. Website Design, Web Programming, iPhone, iPad and Android App Developer, Nottingham, East Midlands, UK.
