Life at St John's | St John's College, Cambridge
Search this site:
Login
Skip to content
Skip to footer
AboutAims of the College
History
Quincentenary
Visiting St John's
Tour
Guides to St John's
Environment
Vacancies
Chapel & Choir
Library & Archives
Hospitality
ApplyingProspectus
Subjects
Why St John's?
Application Process
Finance, Support, Awards & Prizes
Accommodation
Schools
FAQs
Undergraduate Applications
Graduate Applications
College LifeResearch and Innovation
Student Welfare & Teaching
Student Facilities
Activities, Clubs & Societies
Grants, Awards & Prizes
Exchange Programmes
Graduation & Congregations
JohniansNews
Giving
Get involved
Events
About us
PreviousPauseNext
St John's is an impressive venue for conferences, corporate events, private dinners and weddings.
St John’s is a place to belong and thrive. A community that is lively, diverse and always welcoming.
The Choir of St John’s College has a deserved reputation as one of the finest collegiate choirs in the world.
A beautiful and inspiring place to live and study. Experience St John’s at one of our Open Days.
The College's world-renowned library houses many medieval manuscripts and early printed books.
St John's College guarantees accommodation for the whole duration of your course.
Discover St John's
Meet Rebecca Thomas: An ASNC student from Cardiff
Rebecca Thomas first came to St John's as an undergraduate and is now studying for a PhD. In this film she tells us about her life at College, and some of its Welsh connections.
We need to talk about brain scans
PhD student Julia Gottwald co-authors a new study which highlights a pressing need to plan for the implementation of technology that can "read" human minds
LGBT+ History Month 2017
St John's will be joining organisations across Cambridge in marking LGBT history month this February
Bag-like sea creature was humans’ oldest known ancestor
Professor Simon Conway Morris and colleagues have identified what may be the earliest known step on the evolutionary path that eventually led to us.
Apocalypse Now!
A live reading of the Apocalypse of John, in Greek with English translations, will take place at St John's this February and is open to all
Professor Azim Surani to give this year’s Linacre Lecture
The annual Linacre Lecture will take place at St John’s College on 20 February and will be given by Professor Azim Surani.
See more news
Applying/SubjectsHow to apply and subjects you can study
Life at St John'sFind out about life at the College
College CalendarFind out what's happening around St John's
This site uses cookies. You can find out more by reading our Privacy & Cookies information.
Follow us on Twitter
Tweets by @stjohnscam
Find us on Facebook
College events
Monday 23 January - Friday 21 April
A Day in the Life of a Johnian
Library exhibition
Monday 20 February 17:00 - 18:30
Linacre Lecture 2017
College life
Monday 20 February 18:30 - 19:15
Choral Evensong sung by St John’s Voices
Chapel
More events...
Listen Online
The Choir of St John’s College, Cambridge was the first Choir of its kind to broadcast weekly...
Sponsor a Shelf
St John’s is committed to maintaining the best-provisioned College library in Cambridge.
St John's College Studentships
From 2016, students whose household income is less than £25,000 will receive additional financial...
Contact
Contact us
Fellows Directory
Maps & Directions
Facebook
Twitter
Information
News Archive
College Calendar
Galleries
Vacancies
Links
Resources
Glossary
Document Library
Online Room Booking System
CamTools
© 2014 St John's College Cambridge, Registered Charity Number 1137428
Freedom of Information
Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies
