SMART - Student-Managed Access to Online Resources | Student-Managed Access to Online Resources
SMART – Student-Managed Access to Online Resources
Student-Managed Access to Online Resources
Home
Team
Secure sharing of Higher Education Achievement Reports (HEARs) at Newcastle University using SMART
October 5, 2012
maciejmachulak Leave a comment
We’ve just released a draft version of the “Secure sharing of Higher Education Achievement Reports (HEARs) at Newcastle University using SMART” document. Our goal is to propose improvements to existing processes at Newcastle University and integrate SMART with some of the applications, as discussed. Please feel free to send your feedback.
You can also check out SMART white paper – single page that describes the problems in Higher Education that SMART AM solves.
Categories: Publications, Research
Puma: building a requester application
June 30, 2012
maligree Leave a comment
Here comes the second part of our hands-on introduction to our lovable Python UMA implementation – PUMA. As Part I, it may not be all that brief, but it is wildly comprehensive and grants you the hottest superpower on the market: rapidly creating sleek, UMA-enabled Requester Applications.
Read more…
Categories: Development
Puma: building a host application
April 20, 2012
maligree Leave a comment
What you see here is the first part of our hands-on introduction to our lovable Python UMA implementation. It may not be all that brief, but it is wildly comprehensive and grants you the hottest superpower on the market: rapidly creating sleek, UMA-enabled applications.
Let’s get to work, then.
Read more…
Categories: Development
Releasing Puma.
April 13, 2012
maligree Leave a comment
The time has come. We’re proud to announce that after serving us well internally and powering our sleek host and requester applications, it is time to release Puma – the little beast behind the curtain that you should definitely pay attention to – our Python library for swiftly implementing UMA enabled applications.
Puma code repository: https://bitbucket.org/smartproject/puma-gae
Building a host application with Puma: right this way
Building a requester application with Puma: over here
As a reference implementation, don’t hesitate to check out both:
PumaHostOne: https://bitbucket.org/smartproject/pumahostone
PumaRequesterOne: https://bitbucket.org/smartproject/pumarequesterone
Learn more about the flow using SMARTAM by viewing the following two presentations:
http://www.slideshare.net/smartjisc/smart-uma-alicetobob-sharing
http://www.slideshare.net/smartjisc/smart-uma-alicetoalice-sharing
All code is released under the Apache 2.0 license.
Categories: Development
The Business of Open Source
December 19, 2011
lukaszmoren Leave a comment
“I’ve experienced quite a bit about how open source works. It’s been a wonderful learning experience for me and definitely turned me from someone who thought open source code and developers were somehow not as good as closed source equivalents into a person who knows that the opposite is most definitely the case!”(Mark Little, Red Hat, blog)
Indisputable fact of today’s worlds is an existence of many IT companies that based their success on the Open Source. Talend, Alfresco, Cloudera, Mozilla and last but not least: Red Hat/JBoss (How JBoss did it!) are great examples of that.
Read more…
Categories: Conferences, Development, Research
Tags: open source code, open source projects
User eXperience & Trusted Claims for UMA – New presentations!
July 25, 2011
Maciek Leave a comment
Our colleague Domenico Catalano has just finished his stay at Newcastle University. During his stay Domenico has given two presentations – one on Exploring Visualization Techniques to Enhance Privacy Control UX for User-Managed Access and the other on Extending the UMA Protocol to support Trusted Claims.
Read more…
Categories: Usability, UX
OAuth 2.0 Implementation in Python
July 23, 2011
maciejmachulak 1 comment
The SMART team has just released a new OAuth 2.0 implementation in Python. You can find the source code here and the documentation for the library is available here. The library in Python has  been developed entirely by Jacek Szpot (with a little help from the SMART team). Jacek joined SMART around 4 weeks ago and we are very excited about this first release.
The OAuth 2.0 Python library has been released under the Apache 2.0 license and we plan to continue further development. As always, we very much appreciate feedback and we’re open to suggestions on how to make the library better!
Categories: Development
Older Entries
RSS feed
Google
Youdao
Xian Guo
Zhua Xia
My Yahoo!
newsgator
Bloglines
iNezha
About The project will develop an online data access management system based on the User-Managed Access (UMA) Web protocol, a newly proposed technology that builds on OAuth. UMA is in the process of being standardised by the UMA work group (charter of the Kantara Initiative).
Labels
Conferences
Development
Presentations
Publications
Research
Uncategorized
Usability
UX
Links
SMART project website
Top
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
SMART – Student-Managed Access to Online Resources
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
