Home
-
Supporting Learners In a Digital Age
- Brookes Wiki
Access Keys:
Skip to content (Access Key - 0)
Log In
Dashboard
Home
ViewThis pageNormal view
Printable view
Other pagesHome page
Dashboard
News
Recent updates
RSS feed builder
Index
Site map
Labels
Attachments index
Space activity
People Directory
AccountLog in
History
Show children (3)
EditAdministrationAdvanced
OCSLD
Supporting Learners In a Digital Age
HomeDashboard
Supporting Learners In a Digital Age (SLIDA)
Overview
This project ran from March - October 2010
It investigated how institutions are creating and enabling opportunities that promote the development of effective learning in a digital age. The main deliverables of the study are nine institutional case studies and a final Synthesis Report with recommendations for further and higher education on how to develop effective institution-wide strategies and practices which better support effective learners in a digital age. The study presented an opportunity to build capacity in researching learners' needs and experiences through working collaboratively with each institution to assess what evidence they have available and what further evaluations they could conduct. This experience of co-creating case studies is documented in the Methodology Report.
Aims and objectives
The aim of this study was to critically examine the strategies, policies and practical developments being implemented by UK higher and further education institutions to support learning in technology rich environments. The ultimate aim was to promote strategies which support learners to develop the access, skills, strategies and attributes they need to learn effectively with technology.
Project methodology
In order to engage with institutions in a collaborative process of creating a case study, we worked with institutions over a period of time. Working with JISC consultants, we provided each institution with a pack of tools, frameworks and readings to support the assessment and evaluation of their practice. We identified suitable forms of evidence including previous course and project evaluations, student satisfaction; retention, progression and achievement data; feedback from employers, professional bodies, graduate destinations. The collation of the case study culminated with an institutional visit, where we met with learners, academics and managers.
Outputs
A website housing nine institutional case studies, based on an extended version of the case study template developed by the JISC e-learning programme, with audio and/or video extracts to illustrate each case study, at wiki.brookes.ac.uk/display/slidacases
A Final Synthesis Report, PDF 170KB with recommendations for further and higher education on how to develop effective institution-wide strategies and practices which better support effective learners in a digital age.
In addition, because of the interest in our method for collecting case studies, we produced a Methodology Report (PDF 200KB)
Links
JISC SLiDA web site
Search space
Labels parameters
Labels
Enter labels to add to this page:
Looking for a label? Just start typing.
© 2009 Oxford Brookes University, Headington Campus, Gipsy Lane, Oxford OX3 0BP, UK - Tel: +44 (0)1865 741111
Adaptavist Theme Builder (3.3.5-conf210) Powered by Atlassian Confluence 3.0.0_01, the Enterprise Wiki.
