Exploiting Activity Data in the Academic Environment
Exploiting activity data in the academic environment
Understanding it
Doing it right
Implementing it
About this project
Introduction
Benefits
Lessons Learnt
High Level Guidance
Data Protection
Licensing and Sharing Activity Data
Collecting, Processing and Presenting Data
JISC Projects
Related Work
Technical Recipes
Synthesis Method
Recommendations for Further Work
Acknowledgements
About Activity Data
Successful organisations are increasingly collecting and making use of their activity data.
Exploiting your institutions activity data allows you to understand and support your users more
effectively and manage your resources more efficiently. Three examples illustrate how you could
benefit from exploiting the data
Identifying and supporting at risk students earlier to reduce the number of students leaving
courses or failing can be achieved through understanding patterns of behaviour from the
students (eg through the use of the VLE, accessing library resources, attendance data).
Providing recommendations for resources that support learning and research by using the
results of other people's searches that relate to the users' current search.
Understanding how resources are actually being used so that it becomes possible to plan
more effectively.
This web site synthesises the work of the JISC funded activity data programme in order to help you to
understand how you might benefit from exploiting activity data. Beyond the benefits it discusses
the legal considerations that you need to be aware of (primarily data protection and data licensing)
before looking in some detail at
how to actually exploit your activity data .
The site also contains a set of
guides that provide an overview of particular topics and a set of
detailed "recipes" that explain how to undertake some of the detailed technical tasks for particular
systems that were used in the projects.
To get an overview you will probably find the following sections most useful.
Introduction
Benefits of using activity data
Data protection
Guides
For a more detailed understanding you will find it useful to additionally look at the following
sections:
Collecting, processing and presenting activity data
Lessons learnt by the projects
Licensing and sharing activity data
Recipes
This
online resource was produced by the JISC-funded Activity Data Synthesis
Project at the School of Computer Science, University of Manchester.
The project team consisted on Tom Franklin, Helen Harrop, David Kay and
Mark van Harmelen.
The contents of the web site are licensed under a Creative Commons CC0 ‘no rights reserved’ licence to enable free reuse.
Key Issues (pdf)
Business Benefit & Strategic Imperative
Full Site Text (pdf)
Top
Activity data synthesis
contact  tom@franklin-consulting.co.uk
Last updated: 02/11/2011
