Terminology Registry Scoping Study | Home Page
UKOLN
Raising Awareness
Home
A-Z of projects and activities
About UKOLN
Contact UKOLN
Accessibility
News RSS
"A centre of excellence in digital information management,
providing advice and services to the library, information and
cultural heritage communities."
UKOLN is based at the University
of Bath.
Related Links
Project Home Page
Documentation
Related work
Results and dissemination
Terminology Registry Scoping Study
Background
This scoping study was a JISC-funded project which ran from 7 February 2007 to 7 August 2008.
Further information is available
on the
JISC Web site.
About the TRSS Project
A terminology registry lists, describes, identifies and points to sets of vocabularies
available for use in information systems and services. It can cover free and
publicly available, fee-based and restricted, or organisation-internal vocabularies.
The registry allows discovery of suitable schemes for information or, potentially, use,
by exposing rich metadata about them for navigation and retrieval. The metadata can
hold information allowing the selection of schemes suitable for different purposes,
address information for contacting owners and maintainers, hypertext-links to connect
to the vocabularies or maintainer sites, information to differentiate between versions
and identifiers, names and labels to unambiguously refer to a given scheme.
The study will analyse issues related to the potential delivery of a Terminology Registry
as a shared infrastructure service within the JISC Information Environment. The study
will consider how a Registry might support development of terminology and other
services within the context of a services oriented environment. The role of a
terminology registry will be considered in relation to other components of the
information landscape, in particular with regard to other JISC IE shared infrastructure
services, such as the JISC IE metadata registry (IEMSR) and the JISC IE service
(and collection) registry (IESR). In addition the study will draw on experience
of the use and development of terminology and ontology registries in other domains,
particularly within the e-Learning and e-Science domains, and will draw on experience
from international initiatives.
The study will describe usage scenarios and use cases, investigate requirements
and sustainability, study costs and benefits. It will look at organisational questions
such as who is to create, maintain and host the content of the registry and at
cooperation with similar registries. Architectural issues will be explored, in particular
the potential for co-ordination of registry efforts within the JISC IE and across domains.
The scoping study will make recommendations on which JISC can base decisions
on future provision of a terminology registry. It is envisaged that the work will
inform the development of the Information Environment, the e-Framework and
e-Infrastructure initiatives. The project will also contribute to any future
JISC strategic development activities.
Lead Institution
UKOLN at the University of Bath
UKOLN staff who worked on the project were Koralijke Golub and Michael Day.
Project partner
University of Glamorgan, Hypermedia Research Unit, http://hypermedia.research.glam.ac.uk
Non-funded supporting partners
OCLC Office of Research, USA: http://www.oclc.org/
Archive of Project Web Site
An archive
of the Terminology Repository Scoping Study
is available on the Internet Archive.
On 21 March 2013 the project Web site had been crawled 21 times, dating back to 9 June 2008.
|
|
University of Bath
UKOLN receives support from
the University of Bath where it is based.
Page last revised on:
17-Apr-2013
