The Challenge of Ebooks
Summary Report
Key themes – Infographics
Project outputs & case studies
Stakeholders
Project Team
Contact Us
Navigation
The Challenge of Ebooks
A JISC project
Home
Consumption
Creation
Curation
Project Outputs
The potential of ebooks in academic institutions
There is enormous potential for ebooks in academic institutions.  This project was established to help academic institutions address the challenge of ebooks.
Three infographics (Creation, Curation and Consumption) summarise the opportunities, issues and challenges. They link to website pages where the themes are expanded with references to content created as part of
the project (e.g. case studies) and the the wider literature
Creation opportunities
Institutional creation of ebooks opens up a number of opportunities
Read more
Creation Production & Distribution
Making ebooks isn’t hard but there are a number of issues to consider
Discover more
Creation challenges
Institutions wishing to create theor own ebooks will need to overcome some challenges
Read more
Curation opportunities
Curation (management) of ebooks opens up new opportunities for the end user and also the institution
Find out more
Curation management models
There is no single way of acquiring and managing books
Find out more
Curation challenges
Managing ebooks presents some significant challenges which have only partially been solved
Read more
Consumption opportunities
ebooks give users real benefits
Discover more
Using ebooks
Users don’t use ebooks in the same way as print books.
Ebook technology is still evolving
Read more
Challenges in regard to the use of ebooks
Ebooks are challenging our notion of what a ‘book’ is.
It’s not just the technology change that presents challenges.
Business models are also evolving
Discover more
The goal of the "Challenge of Ebooks in Academic Institutions" project is to help orientate senior institutional managers (our primary audience) and to support institutions in the effective adoption and deployment of ebooks and ebook technology.
Report Infographics Case Studies
The Challenge of Ebooks in Academic Institutions © 2012. All Rights Reserved.
Consumption
Creation
Curation
Case studies
Relevant Resources
Relevant trends/issues
Powered by WordPress. Designed by
