Department of Geography, Cambridge
skip to primary navigation
skip to content
Study at Cambridge
About the University
Research at Cambridge
Search site
Home
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Courses
Applying
Events and open days
Fees and finance
Student blogs and videos
Graduate
Why Cambridge
Qualifications directory
How to apply
Fees and funding
Frequently asked questions
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
History
Visiting the University
Term dates and calendars
Map
For media
Video and audio
Find an expert
Publications
International Cambridge
News
Events
Public engagement
Jobs
Giving to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
For staff
For current students
For alumni
For business
Colleges & departments
Libraries & facilities
Museums & collections
Email & phone search
Department of Geography
Home
About
About  – Overview
Annual Reports
About the website
Website statistics
What's new on this site?
Vacancies
Undergraduate study
Undergraduate study  – Overview
How to apply
Undergraduate course guide
Videos
Audio presentation
Student profiles
Open Days
Field trips
Dissertations
A week in the life at Cambridge…
What do geographers do after their degrees?
What is a Director of Studies?
Learning resources for sixth-formers
Cambridge University Geographical Society
Enquiries
Graduate study
Graduate study  – Overview
MPhil study
How to apply (MPhil)
MPhil in Conservation Leadership
MPhil in Geographical Research
MPhil in Geography
MPhil in Polar Studies
PhD degrees - applying
Current PhD students
Post-doctoral research
Studentships
Contact details
Research
Research  – Overview
Natures, Cultures, Knowledges
Cambridge Cultural and Historical Geography
Societies, Markets, States
Environmental Systems and Processes
Glacial and Quaternary Science
Research Centres and Units
Publications
Research projects index
Postgraduate research
Visiting Academic scheme
Reading groups
Distinguished International Visitors
Symposia
Seminars
People
People  – Overview
Academics
Support staff
Research staff
PhD students
Active retired staff
Visiting Academics
Visiting Academics - applications
Vacancies
Library
Library  – Overview
Library guide
Opening dates and times
Library blog
Exhibitions
Dissertation diaspora
Facilities
Facilities  – Overview
Library
Computing & IT
Geography Science Laboratories and Field Equipment Service
CUCAP - Cambridge University Collection of Aerial Photography
Cartographic Unit
Digital Imaging & Reprographics Unit
Map Library
AV facilities
Alumni
Alumni  – Overview
Alumni events
Features in CAM magazine
Register your details
cantab.net e-mail forwarding
Contacts
Contacts  – Overview
General enquiries
Staff contact details
Getting to the Department
Webmaster
Research in the Department of Geography
Undergraduate study in Geography
Natures, Cultures, Knowledges
Cambridge Cultural and Historical Geography
Contested Political Economies
Environmental Systems and Processes
Glacial and Quaternary Science
Undergraduate study
Geography is one of the most exciting subjects to study at university. We live in an interdependent world caught up in chains of events which span the globe. We depend upon an increasingly fragile physical environment, whose complex interactions require sophisticated analysis and sensitive management.
Read more
Graduate study
The Department has a large community of postgraduate students. Many are working for the PhD degree, awarded on the basis of individual research and requiring three years of full-time study. The Department of Geography also runs a range of Masters/MPhil courses.
Read more
People in the Department
The Department's staff publish regularly in hundreds of separate publications, and attract research funding from a wide variety of sources.
Read more
Research groups
Research in the Department of Geography, arranged in five thematic research groups, covers a broad range of topics, approaches, and sites of study. Our expertise is both conceptual and applied, and our goals as free ranging as policy oriented.
Read more
Latest news
Geography PhD Student featured in 'Cambridge's postgraduate pioneers'
16th February, 2017
PhD student Jonny Hanson's work on snow leopard conservation has been featured in University's 'Postgraduate Pioneers' Series.
Jonny came to Cambridge from Northern Ireland and his research explores the relationship between people, snow leopards and snow leopard conservation in two protected areas in Nepal: the Annapurna Conservation Area and the Sagarmatha (Everest) National Park. Jonny is identifying the human factors which are both critical for and detrimental to snow leopard conservation, including assessing household conflict with snow leopards and conservation efforts. In particular, Jonny's study examines how attitudes vary under the contrasting management regimes at his two field sites, as well as varying degrees of livelihood dependence on livestock. Jonny's work in Nepal has included surveying 705 households and conducting seventy qualitative interviews with local people who share the mountains with snow leopards
Mapping malaria on a local scale
15th February, 2017
A team including Emeritus Professor of Human Geography Bob Haining are working towards the development of a new spatial support system for infectious diseases within Karnataka State in India. Their latest work has focused on the incidence of malaria in the region, using data mapping and cluster detection to identify local conditions associated with high numbers cases. This project will contribute to the development of a practical spatial decision support system for combatting the disease in the area.
Department of Geography hosts Distinguished Visitor Professor Professor Didier Fassin
15th February, 2017
As part of the Distinguished Visitors Scheme, Professor Didier Fassin will be visiting the Department from Tuesday 14th to Thursday 16th February, 2017.
Didier Fassin is the James Wolfensohn Professor of Social Science at the Institute for Advanced Study and Director of Studies at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris. Didier is an anthropologist and a sociologist who has conducted fieldwork in Senegal, Ecuador, South Africa, and France.
Geography researchers part of a project to understan Ethiopia’s volcanoes
14th February, 2017
Professor of Geography Christine Lane and Professor of Volcanology Clive Oppenheimer are part of a team that has undertaken new research on tephra (volcanic ash) in the Afar Triangle and adjacent Ethiopian Rift Valley. The team has undertaken the first <17 cal ka BP tephrostratigraphy for the Afar Triangle using sediments from lakes Ashenge and Hayk (Ethiopian Highlands). The variable and distinct glass compositions of the tephra layers indicate they may have been erupted from as many as seven volcanoes. This project has demonstrated the importance of undertaking further study within this region, so as to better understand its volcanic past, and to be better able to predict volcanoes in the future.
Publication: Martin-Jones, C.M., Lane, C.S., Pearce, N.J.G., Smith, V.C., Lamb, H.F., Oppenheimer, C., Asrat, A. and Schaebitz, F., 2017. Glass compositions and tempo of post-17 ka eruptions from the Afar Triangle recorded in sediments from lakes Ashenge and Hayk, Ethiopia. Quaternary Geochronology, v. 37, p.15-31. doi:10.1016/j.quageo.2016.10.001.
India’s militant rhino protectors are challenging traditional views of how conservation works
13th February, 2017
Reader in the Political Economy of Environment and Development and Director of University of Cambridge Conservation Research Institute Bhaskar Vira responds to a BBC Investigation into Kaziranga, a national park in north-eastern India, which found that guards at the park were shooting suspected poachers dead in order to protect the rhinos.
In a piece for The Conversation Dr Vira explores what the case reveals about the conflicts that characterise contemporary conservation, as the need to protect endangered species comes into contact with the lives and rights of people who live in and around the increasingly threatened national parks.
View all news
Related links
Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI)
Quaternary Palaeoenvironments Group (QPG)
Cambridge Coastal Research Unit (CCRU)
Campop
UoC Conservation Research Institute
Intranet
Seminars, workshops and lectures
20th February 2017:Foreign-born migrants in the Integrated Census Microdata, 1851-1911. Details…The Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure - seminar series
21st February 2017:Jason Dittmer: Geopolitics of the UK &amp; the World. Details…Cambridge University Geographical Society (CUGS) talks
22nd February 2017:Masterclass: Non-traditional stable isotopes. Details…Cambridge Volcanology
22nd February 2017:Conservation and invasive species in freshwater ecosystems . Details…Cambridge Conservation Seminars
22nd February 2017: The role of pragmatic literacy in estate management. Details…Medieval Economic and Social History Seminars
23rd February 2017:MIS 7, the &quot;Ebbsfleet Interglacial&quot;: sub-stage structure and recognition in the UK record. Details…Quaternary Discussion Group (QDG)
27th February 2017:MPhil Presentations Part I. Details…Graduate Workshops in Economic and Social History
1st March 2017:Governing Events: Emergencies and the Fragile Promise of the State. Details…Department of Geography - main Departmental seminar series
1st March 2017:Submarine canyons in polar and temperate margins: shaping mechanisms and long-term evolution. Details…Scott Polar Research Institute - Physical Sciences Seminar
1st March 2017:Understanding consumer demand in the wildlife trade. Details…Cambridge Conservation Seminars
More seminars…
Tweets by CamUniGeography
About
Search
Sitemap
Contact us
^ Top
Colophon
Sitemap
What's new?
Credits
Login with Raven
Page last saved:30th January 2017 by Webmaster
© 2017 University of Cambridge
University A-Z
Contact the University
Accessibility
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Study at Cambridge
Undergraduate
Graduate
International students
Continuing education
Executive and professional education
Courses in education
About the University
How the University and Colleges work
Visiting the University
Map
News
Events
Jobs
Giving to Cambridge
Research at Cambridge
News
Features
Discussion
Spotlight on...
About research at Cambridge
