Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy, University of Cambridge
Skip to content
Search
Email
& phone search
A–Z
Contact us
Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy
Home
About DMSM
Research
Prospective students
Teaching
Alumni & fundraising
Intranet
University of Cambridge
Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy
The Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy is now housed in a new
building on the West Cambridge Science and Technology campus. For the first
time in its history, the Department is housed in a single building designed
for purpose. The Department has over 30 academic staff including research
fellows, more than 50 administrative, technical and support staff, and
roughly 80 postdoctoral researchers, 130 research students and 30 visiting
scientists at any time.
Information for...
Visitors coming to
the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy
Prospective students
Alumni
Current staff and students
Read...
Material Eyes
Research Papers of the Month
Privacy and Cookie policy
Follow us...
Connect with us...
Information about...
People at the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy
Events
Athena SWAN at the Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy
Opportunities for industry
CPD courses for industry
Working with schools
Department library
Job vacancies
PhD vacancies
Use...
DoITPoMS resources
News
19 January 2017
Prof Judith Driscoll's research group receives an unexpected donation!
We are very grateful to Dr Bill Welland (PhD student 1970-73) for his recent donation to support research within Prof Judith Driscoll's group.
Read more...
Research papers of the month
View the current month
H. Tao, T. D. Bennett and
Y. Yue, "Melt-Quenched Hybrid Glasses from
Metal-organic Frameworks,", Advanced Materials (2017) 1601705.
T. D. S.
J. Lainé, K. M. Knowles, P. J. Doorbar, R. D. Cutts and D.
Rugg, Acta Materialia 123 (2017) 350‒361.
T. J. Puchtler, T. Wang, C. X. Ren, F. Tang, R. A. Oliver, R. A. Taylor, and T. Zhu, “Ultrafast, Polarized, Single-Photon Emission from m-Plane InGaN Quantum Dots on GaN Nanowires”, Nano Letters 2016, 16, 7779–7785
© 2017 Department of Materials Science & Metallurgy, University of Cambridge
Information provided by webmaster@msm.cam.ac.uk
Privacy & Cookies
Accessibility
Freedom of Information
Moodle
TIMS
