Opportunities for Women Graduates
Careers & Employability Home
Choosing a Career
Applications and Interviews
Employability
I want to work in ...
Example CVs
Employability Skills
What can I do with my degree?
Aptitude Tests
Work Experience
Postgraduate Study
Working in Kent
Site Map
Vacancies
CAREERS AND EMPLOYABILITY SERVICE
Locations/opening hours
Staff
Careers advice
Careers information
FAQs
Information for employers
Information for staff
Services for Kent graduates
International students
Postgraduates & contract research staff
Discontinuing students
Mature students
Students with disabilities
Female students
Ethnic minority students
LGBT students
Graduates from other universities
Annual reports
Facebook page
Feedback
WHAT CAN I DO WITH MY DEGREE IN?
I WANT TO WORK IN ...
APPLICATIONS & INTERVIEWS
POSTGRADUATE STUDY
CHOOSING A CAREER
EMPLOYABILITY SKILLS
PSYCHOMETRIC TESTS
HOME
Opportunities for Women Graduates
Why do we need these pages?
The good news
Success stories
Finding positive employers
Help from the
Careers and Employability Service
Links
Why have a special page for women graduates?
It is now almost 40 years since the Sex
Discrimination Act became law, yet there are still many areas in which women
graduates have yet to achieve full equality. For example:
On average, male graduates earn 10%
more than females six months after
graduation (HESA)
This pay gap continues to the highest levels: female directors earn an average basic salary of £127,257, compared to
£141,946 for the average male director (Chartered Management Institute )
One in five FTSE 100
companies have no women on the board of directors www.ft.com/cms/s/0/7c1ddf48-c20c-11e1-8e7c-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2MIk8OEmr
Only 27% of police
officers (and 13.7% of chief constables) are
women (Counting Women and www.parliament.uk/briefing-papers/sn00634.pdf)
While a third of
practising barristers and almost half of practising solicitors are women, less
than a quarter of the judiciary are female (Ministry of Justice). Armenia, (just under 23%) and Azerbaijan
(9%) are the only European countries with fewer women judges (Council of
Europe).
In most chartered accountancy firms, fewer than
15% of the partners are female. Only three of the Top 50 firms have more than
25% female partners. and no firms have an equal proportion (Accountancy
Age, 2012).
In Government, men make up 77% of MPs,
two-thirds of MEPs, 83% of Permanent Secretaries (the most senior civil
servants) and 77% of local government chief executives (Counting Women)
A
study has found that women are less likely to apply for vacancies that use "male" sounding words. If the vacancies used words commonly associated with men, like “assertive”, “independent”, “aggressive”, “analytical” and "determined", the women said they found the job less appealing, and were less likely to apply. However, if the advert used words such as “dedicated”, “responsible”, “conscientious” and “sociable” they were more likely to think the job was for them.
At local level, 32% of councillors, 12%
of council leaders and 13% of elected mayors are female (Counting Women)
In universities, only 17 out of the UK’s 115 universities have a female Vice-Chancellor (Kent
is, of course, one of these www.kent.ac.uk/about/vicechancellor) and only 20% of professors are female (Universities UK and HESA, 2012)
Even in careers where women make up the
majority of the workforce, they tend to be under-represented at senior levels.
For example, 73% of teachers are female but only a third of school heads (Department for Education)
Less than half of UK
employers provide childcare support to help parents combine work with family commitments (Hay Group, 2012)
A report for Opportunity Now, the
business-led campaign for women's advancement, identified family
responsibilities, perceptions of women as less committed and stereotyping about
female roles and abilities as the biggest factors holding women back http://wimuk.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/Barriers_to_Work1.pdf
LinkedIn Article Four Ways Women Stunt Their Careers Unintentionally
Becoming a mother 'makes women better at their jobs'
Generation Y women have best skills to break glass ceiling
Female bankers perform better than males - they take less risks and break the rules less than males
But there is some good news …
A study by
Leeds University Business School of 17,000 companies in 2008 found that having at least one female director on the board cut a company's chances of going bust by 20% and that having two or three female directors lowered the chances of bankruptcy even further!
Female graduates have lower unemployment rates than male graduates (HECSU)
The salary differential between graduates and non-graduates
is greater for women than for men,
suggesting that the possession of a degree is probably even more financially
worthwhile for women.
The percentage of women in key roles is slowly increasing: five years ago fewer than 10% of FTSE 100 companies
had a woman on the board and 90% of judges were male.
Women heading corporate departments earn more than
their male counterparts
(Statistics and examples from
Prospects, the Equality & Human Rights Commission, Target Jobs, the Department
for Business, Innovation & Skills and the Chartered Management Institute)
However, although inequality for women
remains a reality, increasing numbers of women are overcoming these barriers,
smashing through the “glass ceiling” and achieving their ambitions in all kinds
of organisations.
Women are often chosen as leaders in times of crisis
Women are often appointed leaders of successful companies in their critical moments. For example: the appointments of the prime minister of Sweden when the country suffered as a result of the global recession and
the CEO of the
Sunoco oil company, appointed when its share price dropped by half. But why does this phenomenon (called "The glass cliff"), occur?
A
study conducted by Caliper2 and Aurora in 2005 found a number of characteristics that distinguish women leaders from men:
Women leaders are more persuasive than male leaders.
When rejected, women leaders learn from adversity and carry on with an "I’ll show you” attitude.
Women leaders have an inclusive, team-building leadership style of problem solving and decision making.
Women leaders are more likely to ignore rules and take risks.
Despite these findings Susanna Bruckmüller and Nyla Branscombe (2010) noted that women often only became leaders in times of trouble because men lack the qualities to do so.
Success stories – women graduates from the University of Kent
Kent graduates have made a name for
themselves in all kinds of career areas. Here are just a few of them:
In the media, Charlotte Green (English, 1978) was voted “one of the most beloved and trusted voices on radio” while newsreader and
correspondent Shiulie Ghosh (Law, 1989) is a senior news anchor for Al-Jazeera
International.
Sarah Waters (English & American Literature, 1987) is the
best-selling and award-winning author of The Little Stranger, Night Watch and
Tipping the Velvet. An even bigger seller is E.L. James (History) whose “Fifty Shades” trilogy has sold over 65
million copies worldwide. Poet and novelist Valerie Bloom was awarded an MBE in 2008.
Public Relations: Mirella (English, 1989) heads up the US operation of a
major London PR consultancy; Belinda (English & History, 1971) is MD
of the corporate practice group of a Top 10 PR agency and Rhonda (History
& Politics, 1971) is now MD of a specialist Healthcare consultancy after
over 10 years’ experience running her own consultancy.
Law - Ceri (English & French Law, 1979) is Head of the Intellectual
Property Dept and member of the Management Board at a leading firm in Cardiff
and teaches IP at Cardiff Law School; Elaine (Law, 1975) is a partner in
the commercial property department at Taylor Wessing; Donna (English and Sociology, 1978) is a
partner and specialist family solicitor at one of the leading, predominantly
publicly funded, law practices in the country; Caroline (English &
German Law, 1989) is a partner in the Property Litigation and Disputes
Resolution group at CMS Cameron McKenna and Jill (French, 1992) is an
employment solicitor in the European Legal & Business Affairs department of
Warner Brothers. At the Bar, Louise (Law, 1986) specialises in
employment law and is a part time Employment Tribunal chairman while Linda
Sullivan (Women's Studies) is one of the 9% of QCs who are women.
Science & Technology: Barbara (Biochemistry, 1979) is the former Head of Applied
Research at the Body Shop; Hanna (PhD, Biosciences, 1989) is a Partner
at a leading firm of Patent Attorneys; Fiona (Ph.D, Biology, 1978)
successfully co-founded two biotechnology companies and is currently CEO of
Novacta Biosystems.
Acting on an anonymous phone call, the police raid a house to arrest a
suspected murderer.
They don't know what he looks like, but they know
his name is John. Inside they find a carpenter, a lorry driver, a car
mechanic, and a fireman playing cards.
Without even asking his name they
immediately arrest the fireman. How do they know they have got their
man?
See bottom of page for solution
Politics & the Public Sector - Jane Hutt (Social & Public
Administration 1970) is Welsh Assembly Cabinet Minister for Finance and
Leader of the House and the Assembly Member for the Vale of
Glamorgan; Sally (English, 1974) is Chief Executive of a Regional Arts
Board; Jacquie (Politics, 1994) and Louise (Classical
Civilisation, 1999) both joined the Civil Service through the highly
competitive Fast-Stream recruitment scheme. Fu Ying (MA International Relations 1986) is the vice
minister of foreign affairs for the People’s Republic of China  and the first female spokesperson for the
National People's Congress.
Banking & Finance: Helen (Sociology, 1988) is global
head for graduate and embark resourcing and development at Barclays Wealth: Jane (European Management Science, 1995) is a Managing Director
at Citibank; Stephanie (English & American Literature, 1984) is
Technical Partner at a large firm of chartered accountants,
The world’s hardest job
Rehtom Inc posted a job advert for the world’s toughest job: a Director of Operations; working 135 hours per week without breaks, working extra hours on holidays, sacrificing
social life,
no time off and no pay.
Despite 2.7 million impressions, the
advert only received 24 applicants who were interviewed via webcam.
At the end of the interview they were
surprised to be told that the job they were applying for was that of a typical mother!
Business: Carolyn McCall (History and Politics) is Chief Executive of
EasyJet and was voted on of the 100 most influential women in Britain by the
BBC’s “Women’s Hour” in 2012.
In other areas, Rebecca (European
Studies 1997) was recruited onto British Airways' pilot training scheme; Penny (Social Anthropology and Politics & Government, 1978) headed the Works
of Art department at a leading London auction house.
There are many other women graduates
from the University who have made a success of their life and career – some in
the public eye, some within less high-profile roles and organisations and some
simply on their own terms, like the teacher who summed up herself as “never
going to be rich or important, but perfectly content”.
University of Kent Case-studies for women in science
www.kent.ac.uk/human-resources/athenaswan/casestudies/index.html
Finding positive employers
These may be employers who have strong
equal opportunities policies; employers where a significant number of women
have achieved senior positions or employers who have taken initiatives to offer
flexible or family-friendly working.
TOP 50 Employers for women 2014
http://opportunitynow.bitc.org.uk/Awards/TTT502014
“Britain's
Top Employers” www.britainstopemployers.co.uk/BritainsTopEmployers.aspx rates around 80 companies on factors including
diversity initiatives, flexible working and career development;
A long time ago a government official asked my mother, "What is your occupation?"
My mother who was seeking renewal of her license seemed to
be puzzled so the officer clarified, “Are you employed, do you have your own
business or what?”
My mother replied, "Oh, I understand, I have a full
time occupation as a mother."
Official: "I’m afraid we don't have 'mother' listed as
an option for occupation-  I will write
it down as 'housewife'"
Years later when I went to get my license, the official
was a somewhat pompous woman. "Your occupation?" she asked in an
authoritative tone.
I had an inspiration and replied: "I’m a
researcher in the field of child development, nutrition and inter-personal
relationships."
The official stared at me in amazement.
I calmly repeated my statement and she wrote it down
verbatim. Then, unable to conceal her curiosity, she politely asked, "What exactly do you do in your profession, madam?"
I was feeling good about having described my occupation so
calmly and confidently so I replied, "My research projects have been going on for a number
of years (mothers never retire!). My research is conducted in the laboratory
as well as in the field. I have received two awards in this field (my son and
daughter) and my topic is considered to be one of the most difficult parts
of sociology (all mums will agree). I work more than 14 hours every day sometimes
even 24 hours are not enough and the challenges are tougher than many other
professions. My compensation is in terms of mental satisfaction rather than
money."
I could see that the officer was
impressed. After
completing the licencing formalities, she came to the door to see me off and this
new viewpoint about my occupation made me feel much better on my way back home.
I was welcomed by my 5 year old research assistant at the
door and my new project (my 10 month old baby) was energetically practicing her
'music'. I had earned a small victory over the governmental red tape
today. I was no longer 'merely a mother', instead I was now a highly placed functionary in a service vital For mankind: motherhood!
TARGET Jobs Events http://targetjobsevents.co.uk   runs a range of information and networking events
to promote diversity, including “IT’s not just for the Boys!” and “Women in
Investment Management”
“Best Companies Guide” www.bestcompaniesguide.co.uk
'Where women work' www.wherewomenwork.com “progressive companies trying to
hire more female talent”
Opportunity Now is
a membership organisation for employers who are committed to creating an
inclusive workplace for women www.opportunitynow.org.uk
Mother@Work www.motheratwork.co.uk monthly webzine dedicated to working mothers,
which includes job vacancies and an “Employer of Choice” listing of employers
who have demonstrated their commitment to providing a good work-life balance
Look for employers who make positive
statements about equality of opportunity in their recruitment advertising.
Use networks and professional interest
groups to find out more about employers and to make contacts – see the “Links” section below for some women's networking groups.
Funding sources for postgraduate study for women students
Yorkshire Ladies Council of Education Fund http://ylce.org general fund open to female students not just to those from Yorkshire.
Help and support from the
Careers and Employability Service
The Careers and Employability Service
is committed to equality of opportunity in keeping with the University of Kent
at Canterbury Student Charter and the NUS/AGR/AGCAS Code of Practice .
Click here to see the University of Kent Careers and Employability Service Equality and
Diversity Statement
Although students booking careers
interviews will normally be allocated to the careers adviser who specialises in
their subject, please tell the receptionist if you would prefer to speak to a
female adviser – see our “Staff” pages for details www.kent.ac.uk/ces/contact/staff.html
Links
General pages on gender and diversity
The Prospects website has an overview of
gender issues here
TARGET Jobs Equality
& Diversity pages http://targetjobs.co.uk/general-advice/equal-opportunities.aspx
Public sector bodies
The Equality & Human Rights
Commission www.equalityhumanrights.com independent, non-departmental public body working
to eliminate discrimination and promote equality and human rights for all.
The Government Equalities Office
responsible for the Government's overall strategy
and priorities on equality issues
TUC pages on equality and womens' issues www.tuc.org.uk/equality/index.cfm
Women's networking organisations – general and business
Women in Management www.managers.org.uk/wim organisation within the Chartered Management
Institute, working through a network of local groups
British Federation of Women Graduates www.bfwg.org.uk provides graduate women in Great Britain with information, support and
friendship; promotes women's opportunities in education and public life and
works for conditions in which women can combine careers and domestic
responsibilities
Everywoman www.everywoman.com independent network for women in business
Business & Professional Women www.bpwuk.co.uk networking, self-development and lobbying organisation with a “Young BPW” for
women under 35.
The 30% Club www.30percentclub.org.uk a group of industry
women and supporting Chairmen and organisations committed to achieving 30%
female representation on FTSE boards by 2015
The Athena Network http://theathenanetwork.co.uk
East Kent Women in Business www.ekentwib.org.uk
Elevation Networks www.elevationnetworks.org Activities
include networking events, mentoring, internships, skills development and
volunteer opportunities for students and graduates  in particular, but not
exclusively, for people from minority ethnic backgrounds, women, and those
affected by disability, poverty or social and economic circumstance.
Women are like tea bags. We don't know our true strength until we are in hot water!
Eleanor Roosevelt
Whatever women do they must do twice as well as men to be thought half as good.
Luckily, this is not difficult.
Charlotte Whitton
Sure God created man before woman.
But then you always make a rough draft before the final masterpiece.
Unknown
A pessimist is a man who thinks all women are bad.
An optimist is a man who hopes they are.
Chauncey Mitchell Depew
A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never remembers her age.
Robert Frost
An archaeologist is the best husband a woman can have. The older she gets the more interested he is in her.
Agatha Christie
The male is a domestic animal which, if treated with firmness and kindness, can be
trained to do most things.
If you want something said, ask a man; if you want something done, ask a woman.
Margaret Thatcher
Remember no one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
Eleanor Roosevelt
Women's networking organisations – specialised areas
Computing for Women www.kent.ac.uk/careers/workin/women-in-computing.htm
Women's Engineering Society www.wes.org.uk
Women into Science & Engineering www.wisecampaign.org.uk promotes science and engineering as a valuable and
interesting career opportunity for women
Women in Technology www.womenintechnology.co.uk on-line job board and networking group for women
working in the IT profession
Women in Physics www.iop.org/activity/groups/subject/wip/index.html
SET Women www.setwomen.co.uk a proposed new community, resource and voice for
women in science, engineering and technology at all stages in their career
across academia, industry and enterprise.
Women in Publishing www.wipub.org.uk
Women in Film and Television www.wftv.org.uk
Women in Journalism www.womeninjournalism.co.uk a networking, campaigning, training and social
organisation for women journalists who work across all the written media, from
newspapers and magazines to new media
Women in Banking & Finance www.wibf.org.uk
Women in Accountancy www.icaew.com/en/members/career-support/career-progression/women-in-accountancy
We Are the City www.wearethecity.com online network of information related to women and the City
The Association of Women Solicitors is an official group of the Law Society. Membership
is open to any woman solicitor or trainee who is a Law Society member or
associate member www.womensolicitors.org.uk
The Association of Women Barristers represents, supports and furthers the interests of
women at the Bar www.womenbarristers.co.uk
International Society of Women Airline Pilots www.iswap.org
British Association for Women in Policing www.bawp.org
Centre for the Advancement of Women in Politics www.qub.ac.uk/cawp many links to women's research units and lobby
groups and a few links to the websites of individual women politicians in the
UK and Ireland
Portia www.portiaweb.org.uk
promoting effective
strategies for gender equality in science
Fabian Women’s Network www.fabianwomen.co.uk Runs a mentoring scheme
for women interested in a career in politics or public life
Creative Women’s Network www.creativewomensnetwork.co.uk “a showcase for creative women in
business”
National Black Women’s Network http://nbwn.org
Expertise.com comprehensive US resource for women business owners from fundraising tips to finding professional organizations and support, online and off www.expertise.com/small-business/resources-for-women-owned-businesses
Self-employment
Prowess www.prowess.org.uk network of organisations and individuals who
support the growth of women's business ownership
SEED www.seednetwork.com support network for women entrepreneurs
See also our Self-Employment links www.kent.ac.uk/careers/selfemployment.htm#links
Other general interest sites
Answer to anonymous phone call question above
All the other card players were women.
The Work & Money section of women's
website www.ivillage.co.uk includes advice on job-hunting, work-life balance,
office politics, working parents and much more
Women in London www.womeninlondon.org.uk a directory of London-based women's groups and
news of their work and activities
The Fawcett Society www.fawcettsociety.org.uk campaigns on women's representation in politics
and public life; pay, pensions and poverty; valuing caring work; and the
treatment of women in the justice system
The Diversity Group www.thediversitygroup.co.uk promotes equal opportunities to people from every
kind of minority background or lifestyle, including race, gender, disability,
age, faith and sexual orientation.
Report on Diversity in Financial Services - opportunities for women
Finding a gender-positive employer
Disclosing your gender when marketing yourself to employers
Your rights around gender
Last fully updated in 2013
Careers home page
Employability skills
Work experience
Choosing a career
What career would suit me?
Postgraduate
What can I do with my degree
I want to work in ....
International Students
Careers events on campus
Applications & interviews
Example CVs
Practice interviews
Aptitude tests
Vacancies
University home page
© These pages are copyright of the University of Kent
Careers and Employability Service.
The information and advice given in these pages is primarily for
the benefit of University of Kent students and graduates.
You are most welcome to link to these pages but should not use content in other ways without our permission.
Page maintained by Bruce Woodcock
Please email
me if you wish to make any suggestions which would improve our services.
