The Design Studio / AUA DL
The Design Studio
log inhelp
WikiPages & Files
View
AUA DL
Page history
last edited
by Phil Wolstenholme 3 years, 3 months ago
Association of University Administrators (AUA)
Aims
The AUA's involvement with the JISC Digital Literacies project will map attributes of Digital Literacy to the AUA's CPD framework, as well as explore the psychological motivations or barriers that either encourage or inhibit the use of digital skills by professional support service staff in HE.
Mapping digital literacy skills to the AUA CPD Framework
We mapped Jisc defined DL capabilities against their corresponding AUA CPD Framework behaviours
As part of early work with UCL's Digital Department project we also mapped elements of the CPD framework against UCL specific roles
Baseline report
The Baseline report outline's the AUA's involvement in the Developing Digital Literacies (DDL) programme as well as providing a snapshot of our members attitude to digital tools, expertise/digital skills and current practice of using technology in the workplace.
The report's appendices contain a copy of our baseline survey, and a summary of the data collected from the baseline survey as of 31/01/2012. A wealth of anonymous free text comments are also available at the end of Appendix 2 that provide a rich insight into our members' views on implementation of digital tools in the workplace.
Download the report here.
AUA Conference and Exhibition 2012
The Conference contained numerous sessions and other content relevant to the Developing Digital Literacies programme:
Digital Department poster presentation
Digital Department workshop View more PowerPoint from stefanieanyadi
What skills do we need for the digital age? session (and resources)View more PowerPoint from mylesdanson
Demystifying JISC session
The Digital Administrator / Web Tools for Administrations session
View more presentations from JISC Netskills
Social Media for the Terrified sessionView more PowerPoint from Sue Beckingham
Social Media panel
Throughout the conference delegates were encouraged to take part in the conference backchannel on Twitter, which was received warmly by members:
I think #AUA12 was a bit of a breakthrough event re wider use of Social Media by members. Great presn by @suebecks here slideshare.net/suebeckingham/…
— Janette Hillicks (@HanetteHeelox) April 5, 2012
RT @mike_rat: @The_AUA The mobile site is great...even down to the table plan for the gala dinner. #AUA12 <Agree.A real step change!
— Paul Greatrix (@registrarism) March 31, 2012
Interesting panel debate at #aua12. Enriched by live tweeting from audience.Special mention to @registrarism @helenkemerson @lindsayjordan
— Joe Rennie (@joe72_) April 3, 2012
The AUA Digital Toolbox
​
The AUA Digital Toolbox directory aims to collect useful resources for administrators and managers within HE in one central and organised location. Anyone can log into the website (using either their AUA membership details or by creating a new account) and add new resources, or add to the description of existing resources. We'd also like to encourage users to leave comments and add tags to resources to help other users benefit from the site.
AUA newslink articles
newslink is the AUA's member magazine. The publication has included a feature on 'What are Digital Literacies?' as well as a series of articles promoting useful web services for administrators.
An additional series focused on how members can use the internet and social media to promote themselves and develop new opportunities. Thank you to Sue Beckingham, the author of this series.
(the links below are to newslink articles hosted within our members' area so are unfortunately not open access)
Developing a professional online presence
Connecting, Communicating and Collaborating: Expanding your CPD Opportunities
Developing Personal Learning Networks online
DL content at other AUA events
We made sure that Jisc/digital literacy/digital skills content was reflected across the range of events that we organised during the project period.
Wales Conference
Developing Digital Literacies - Andrew Comrie, Kerson Associates
Midlands Conference
Missing a trick: Are your communication practices inclusive? -Dr Simon Ball, JISC TechDis
Student Experience in the digital age - Paul Beeby, The Open University
Using Augmented Reality to Enhance Printed Communications -Judy Bloxham, JISC RSC Northwest and Allen Crawford Thomas, JISC West Midlands
Assessing students the online way - Sarah Seeley, University of Nottingham
2013 Development and Skills Conference
Developing your digital literacies and skills - Myles Danson, Jisc - Catherine Lilie and Phil Wolstenholme, AUA
Yorkshire and North East Conference
Tried and tested tools for university administrators - Janette Hillicks and Gemma Elliot, Northumbria University
About the AUA
The Association of University Administrators (AUA) is the professional association for higher education administration and management staff. Our aim is clear: to promote excellence in higher education management and to be a champion for our sector.
The AUA is the leading professional association for colleagues working in HE administration, management and leadership. Our core purpose is to promote and facilitate professional development opportunities for the profession.
The acquisition and refinement of digital literacy is critical to the effective delivery and support we offer UK HE and fundamental to future-proofing the skillset of the profession. The AUA has a long tradition of supporting innovative professional development, and a track record of delivering ground-breaking HEFCE-funded projects to develop and implement the only sector-wide CPD Framework for professional services staff in HE.
www.aua.ac.uk
twitter.com/The_AUA
AUA DL
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
Tags:
digital literacy, professional bodies, professional associations, AUA, JISC DDL
AUA DL tags changed
SideBar
Home
About the Design Studio
Accessing the Design Studio
Developing Digital Literacies
Developing digital literacies in the curriculum
Developing digital literacies for digital scholars and researchers
Developing digital literacies for employability
Developing digital pioneers
Developing digitally literate institutions
Developing your digital literacies
Curriculum Change and Transformation
Curriculum Challenges
Curriculum Processess
Curriculum Technologies
Curriculum Design & Delivery programme
Curriculum Design Institutional Stories
Transforming Assessment & Feedback
Assessment & Feedback Programme
Assessment & Feedback Topics
Assessment & Feedback Tools and Resources
Embedding Benefits
About the Embedding Benefits programme
View All Tags
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
