Teaching and learning | IT Services
Skip to main content
Header shortcuts
Getting started Manage accounts Nexus email Service status IT rules Blogs
Social networking links
Subscribe to our RSS feed
Follow us on Twitter
Find us on Facebook
Find us on GitHub
University of Oxford
IT Services
delivering responsive, innovative IT across the University of Oxford
Search Google Appliance
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
Search within:
all
help
Contact the service desk View requests Visit the IT Help site
Top Nav
Home
What we do
I want to...
Services
About
News & events
Home >> What we do >> Teaching and learning
Teaching and learning
code: lunchtime presentations
See how University members use programming in innovative ways every Friday from 10 February to 10 March. Visit the booking system and search for 'code:'
Teaching and learning
Browse our service catalogue to see how we assist with the use of technology in teaching and learning.
Hilary term course catalogue
Explore our extensive range of courses and learn new skills for the new term.
Get creative...
...with our range of courses on Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop and InDesign.
Part of our remit at IT Services is to help academics, students and staff get the most from technology for learning and teaching. Our work here ranges from facilitating the use of IT for lectures to creating digital teaching resources or helping Oxford’s world-class academics communicate and broadcast their work. We conduct research into the student digital experience and evaluate learning technologies to ensure that, where IT is concerned, the best experience for our students will be the typical experience.
We design, organise and teach IT literacy courses, to help staff and students make the most of the tools and resources at their disposal. We provide access to lynda.com, free online IT courses, available anytime, anywhere. We develop, support and maintain WebLearn, the University’s virtual learning environment (VLE). We also support Turnitin, the University plagiarism awareness service.
Public engagement and impact are increasingly important to many researchers and lecturers in the University. We advise colleagues on the use of new technology for outreach and engagement. We offer services to record and publish lectures, seminars and events through our video and media services. We help develop collections of reusable and open educational materials. These range from the highly successful Oxford podcast site on iTunes U – currently over 25 million downloads – to Woruldhord, an online collection of free educational resources for teaching and study of Old English and the Anglo-Saxons. We support the publication of educational resources to the Oxford page on the Times Educational Supplement Website: TES Connect.
To promote innovative use of learning technologies, we provide case studies and organise events, workshops and conferences relating to current projects. We recognise and reward creative practice across the institution in the annual OxTALENT Awards.
News
New version of Turnitin available from 16 January 2017
Publication date:
Thursday, 12 January 2017
See what’s changed in the new Turnitin Feedback Studio
January-March IT courses schedule and early-bird discount
Publication date:
Wednesday, 04 January 2017
Early-bird discount available until 22 January.
Site-licensed software now available to download
Publication date:
Wednesday, 21 December 2016 to Monday, 16 January 2017
Discounted and free site-licensed software available for academic use.
Read more news for this topic
Related projects
Education IT Programme
WebLearn Upgrade
WebLearn Improved Students Experience Project (WISE)
Related services
Service catalogue
Contact us
For general advice and support contact academicit@it.ox.ac.uk.
Contact specific services:
WebLearn: weblearn@it.ox.ac.uk
Media: media@it.ox.ac.uk
Podcasts: podcasts@it.ox.ac.uk
Plagiarism awareness: turnitin@it.ox.ac.uk
Keep up to date
ACIT Oxford on Twitter
Blog
Just around the corner… OxTALENT 2017
The OxTALENT 2017 competition will shortly be upon us. It will open for entries on Tuesday 21st February, and entrants will have until 28th April to submit their forms. The awards ceremony will take place on the afternoon of Wednesday … Continue reading →
Also on this website
IT Learning CentreResearch supportWorking together
Related websites
Open Spires
Engage
Education at Oxford
OxTALENT
Oxford podcasts
Educational media
WebLearn
Service desk
13 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 6NN
tel: (+44) 1865 612345
Administrative address
Dartington House, University Offices, Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JD
Our offices
13 Banbury Road, Oxford OX2 6NN
tel: (+44) 1865 273200
Dartington House, University Offices, Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JD
tel: (+44) 1865 270202
23-38 Hythe Bridge Street, Oxford OX1 2EP
tel: (+44) 1865 270000
Gibson Building, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter, Woodstock Road, Oxford OX2 6GG
tel: (+44) 1865 270098
footer links
Accessibility
Jobs
Privacy
Cookies
Legal
Picture credits
Contact webmaster
Related sites
IT Staff Intranet
IT Learning Centre booking system
IT Services online shop
SharePoint
WebLearn
Footer text
Ucisa member
