vric | ECS | University of Southampton
Home
Overview
Publications
Presentations
Team
Contact
ViewMyVRIC
Links
Blog
WIKI
university of southampton > ecs > vric
The aim of the project is to build a framework for the
integration of basic science and clinical research to manage research
lifecycles and allow for integration of scientific approaches throughout
these lifecycles into the everyday work practice of the consortia that
manage translational clinical research.
The project will take the CORE VRE and embed it into a
National centre for surgical excellence, the Royal National Orthopaedic
Hospital (RNOH). The VRE will integrate both with the institutional systems
and research life cycle, and with the national systems such as the National
Health Service (NHS). It is our aim to integrate the CORE VRE with
myExperiment to provide a set of services at RNOH to cover the four main
areas of the research cycle, namely: the monitoring and governance of trials
(experiment research administration); the trial protocols (experiment
workflows); the publishing, dissemination and discussion on the results of
trials in a repository; and the discovery of information from the repository
and other resources.
For this community, there are three tightly coupled areas of
focus: research, clinical practice, and education (in the form of continuing
professional development and training of the next generation of surgeons).
In this project, our user community will be heavily involved in co-designing
and co-deployment of the tool set, and in particular the front end of the
workbench will be user focused. The
tools will need to be available to staff anywhere with the
organisation, as clinicians need to be able to enter the data during clinics
and directors of research need to be able to monitor the trials. This will
bring with it a number of inter-operability issues, as we move data between
the VRE, the hospital systems (NHS) and the institutional systems.
To aid the understanding of the how the system will be used,
we outline a typical ‘research cycle’ that includes the practice of a
clinical specialist in orthopaedics (who may also be a Higher surgical
trainee) and a basic scientist. The purpose of this is to identify time
essential information provision and interaction with pervasive technologies.
For new researchers one of the most difficult tasks is to learn good
practice or find related experiments to learn how to instantiate the
protocols; in many organisations it is often easier to repeat an experiment
than to find the results of a similar previous experiment. In this
abstracted model of the research lifecycle, we have split up the cycle into
four main research activities. In each of these activities the different
issues and stakeholders are addressed.
The wider community nationally is represented by the
Musculoskeletal network of Greater London, NHS, e-science, Surgical and VRE
communities. It is through the Musculoskeletal network of Greater London
that we will be able to co-ordinate knowledge and demonstrations to advise
the community and for continuity. This project will impact on the wider
academic community in the UK, initially through dissemination via
organisations such as BriteNet (Tissue Engineering), The British Orthopaedic
Association, British Orthopaedic Research Society, and the British Elbow and
Shoulder Society as the groups tied into the consortia development.
Contact Us | Intranet | © 2009 University of Southampton
Funded by:
