Dario Landa-Silva - Office Space Allocation System
Back to the Research Activities
Automated Office Space Allocation
Objectives
The difficulties concerning the problem of office space allocation in universities have caused an increasing amount of concern
within higher education over the last few years. Attempts to alleviate this problem have been tried, either by increasing the available
office space or by increasing the efficiency of how the space is used.
The Automated Office Space Allocation software has been developed at the ASAP
research group at the the University of Nottingham under the Joint Technology Applications Programme (JTAP) of the HEFC's Joint
Information Systems Committee (JISC). The aim has been to apply the latest meta-heuristic technology to produce a state-of-the-art, user friendly
and interactive tool for office space administrators. Emphasis is on producing a usable, intuitive system that will provide good quality solutions to room
allocation problems and will allow the user to manually alter these solutions and then go back to the system. The basic idea is that the
user will find a high quality solution by using the system and his/her own knowledge of the problem in hand. This is a project that started
in August 1996 and as a result of the initial three years stage, we obtained the first version of the system. In the second stage since May 1999 the
system has been improved with new algorithms and features, it is a Windows 2000/NT application and is capable of reading in space data from any
Windows ODBC supported database format.
Brief Description
The software provides useful statistical and graphical information for administrators and network connectivity enables central
office space administrators to monitor up to date allocations and statistics on a wide variety of aspects of office space utilisation.
The functionality of this first version of the software is limited since the focus of the Metaheuristics
and Multiobjective Approaches for Space Allocation project was the scientific research rather than the commercial development of the system. For
any comment, feedback or further interest please
email me.
The description of the data files structure needed to run the software and some test problems used in our experiments
are available here. The Technical Documentation and the
User Manual are also available.
Loading the data files
Select File then Open in the main menu.
Select the data files set to be loaded.
The following window appears.
Here you can change any of the data files.
Click the OK button.
The following window appears.
The name name of the data file set loaded is in the title bar. On the left panel, there is a tree view showing
the main sections of available information within the system: Fitness Statistics, Guidelines, Resources Summary, Rooms Summary, Space View
and List of Room Changes.
Performing the office space allocation
Select File then System User in the main menu.
The following window appears.
Select the desired Search Process Type.
Click the Run Algorithm button.
The system performs the allocation.
Evaluating the allocation
Select the Fitness Statistics section in the left panel to view the resulting statistics of the
current allocation.
The Resources Summary section shows the data and allocation of every single resource in the
current problem.
The Rooms Summary section shows the data and occupants of every single room in the
current problem.
The UnAllocated Resources section shows those resorces that have not been scheduled.
Select Windows and then Layout Window in the main menu to display any exiting
layout drawing of the office space in the current problem.
Related Information
The test data sets for this project were created from real data collected from British Universities.
The publications, including the PhD Thesis in pdf format, related to the office space allocation research project are available here.
Here there is a brief description of the
office space allocation problem.
Last Update: 20 September 2005
