wales / FrontPage
wales
log inhelp
Get a free wiki
|
Try our free business product
WikiPages & Files
View
Edit
To edit this page,
request access to the workspace.
Already have an account? Log in!
FrontPage
Page history
last edited
by Tony Toole 6 years, 8 months ago
Welcome to the WALES Website
WALES (Work-based Access to Learning through E-Services) is a JISC funded project to evaluate the use of mobile technology and social software in support of on-line learners.
The broad aim of the WALES project is to:
Implement and evaluate the use of mobile technologies and social software in the delivery of a personalised learning experience for work-based learners following HE blended learning programmes supported by FE institutions.
The project objectives are to:
·         Design, implement and evaluate a tutor support system that includes the use of  mobile technologies; mobile phones, PDAs and other devices
·         Include in the support system the use of social software such as Blogs, Wikis, instant messaging and discussion forums
·         Include also, the use of social on-line resource providers such as Google, MySpace, YouTube and del.icio.us
·         Evaluate the effectiveness of the technologies in the context of HE courses being delivered by FE staff to work-based and campus-based learners
·         Evaluate the effectiveness of the technologies in support of the administration of collaborative teaching and learning and access to support services
This site will be used to host all the project documentation, links and other resources and will be accessible to the project team and all interested stakeholders.
The WALES  project was funded by    as part of the HE in FE Programme
FrontPage
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
PBworks
/ Help
Terms of use / Privacy policy
About this workspace
Contact the owner /
RSS feed /
This workspace is public
Join this workspace
To join this workspace,
request access.
Already have an account? Log in!
Navigator
Loading…
SideBar
WALES Wiki Navigation
Click on the pages below
Wiki Pages
FrontPage
Project Management
Project Partners
Project Reports
Management Meeting Archive
Work in Progress
Project Deliverables
Dissemination
Web Links
The Wales e-Training Network
Education Through Ubiquitous Technologies and e-Services
MobiGlam
General information about the work of JISC can be found at: www.jisc.ac.uk
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
