Digitised collection - Library, The University of York
Skip to Content
Library
Search
Library
University
University | A to Z | Departments
» Library» About our collections» Digitised collection
Library homeSearch our resourcesLibrary locations & opening hoursBorrowingAbout our collections
Audio visual
Books & ebooks
Digitised collection
York Digital Library Policy
Exam papers
Funding and support
How to use YODL
Masters theses
YODL collecting principles
Exam papers
Government publications
Journals & ejournals
Maps
Newspapers
Special Collections
Theses & dissertations
White Rose Research Online
Study spacesPrint, copy & scanSubject GuidesInformation for...Other librariesNewsFeedbackA to Z of Library servicesContact usInformation Services
Please contact us if you have a collection which you would like included in York Digital Library
Digitised material from York Minster Library
Unique stained glass image collections
Images of excavations and finds from archaeological digs
The York Cause Papers
Digitised collection
Search York Digital Library
University of York users: don't forget to log in when you access the Digital Library
About the Digital Library
York Digital Library (YODL) is an online repository for multimedia resources including images, past exam papers and Masters theses.
University of York users should log in to access the Digital Library. A number of our collections are also publically available.
Help and guidance
How to use YODL
Exam papers
Submitting Masters dissertations
Funding and support
Policies
YODL policies
YODL collecting principles
Contact us
If you have a query or would like to suggest a collection for digitisation, please email:lib-enquiry@york.ac.uk
How to use the Digital Library
Either use the search box above, or go to dlib.york.ac.uk.
Don't forget to log in with your University username and password in the top right of the screen to access all resources available to you.
Homepage
The homepage allows you to search across all resources, or restrict your search by format using the tabs (eg Image, Audio) above the search box.
Searching
Search directly from the homepage or select the search tab. As you begin to type in the search box, suggested search terms will appear.
Refining searches
Search results are displayed with the option to sort by relevance, title, or date added. You can filter your results by the terms listed in the left menu.
Viewing a resource
When you find a resource that you wish to view, click on the thumbnail or caption and a full item record will be displayed.
This screen may differ slightly depending on the type of material you are viewing, but it will usually contain more detailed information about the resource and a button to download the resource.
The full item record for an image also has a series of viewing options which appear as you hover your mouse over the image.
Browsing the collections
From the homepage choose the Browse tab. A list of collections will be displayed in the left column; view the sub collections using the + and - buttons.
University Library
University of York,
Heslington,
York,
YO10 5DD,
UK
Tel:
work
+44 (0)1904 323838
| Fax:
fax
+44 (0)1904 323866
|
lib-enquiry@york.ac.uk
Legal statements
| Website feedback
© University of York | Modify | Direct Edit
