The E-Learning Framework - Welcome to the E-Learning Framework Site
This material is archived. It is no longer updated or maintained. It may be out of date and not function as intended. Current information can be found at www.cetis.ac.uk
Skip to content.
The E-Learning Framework
Sections
Home
Framework
projects
Papers
recent
Personal tools
You are not logged in
Log in
Join
You are here:
Home
Welcome to the E-Learning Framework Site
The ELF is an international effort to develop a service-orientated approach to the development and integration of computer systems in the sphere of learning, research and education administration. It has now been subsumed into the wider e-framework initiative, which encompasses Information Technology, Research, Library, Administration in addition to Learning & Teaching.
Partners
more about the ELF and its partners...
Project Directory
A wide range of software components which implement services within the e-Learning framework can be found in the ELF Project Directory
ELF Reference Models
A number of projects are producing reference models which look at the framework from application specific points of view: ELF Reference Models
e-Learning Focus
For more on how the ELF and the development projects fit into the JISC e-Learning programme see e-Learning Focus
Sample User Agents
Learning Domain Services
Common Services
View the whole framework
News
Events
The e-Framework and the ELF
JISC and DEST alongside other international partners are broadening the service-oriented approach into services for Research and Administration to compliment e-Learning.
TALL study in ELF Project Directory
Oxford University's Technology Assisted Lifelong Learning Unit developed a study of e-Learning systems and their relevance to the ELF. The report, is now available as part of the ELF Project Directory. To view the project go to: www.elframework.org/projects/tall/
WS-Reliable Messaging initiative to go to OASIS
With a call for participation, the first step has been taken for the widely used WS Reliable Messaging (WS-RM) spec to be developed further in OASIS (Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards). WS-RM has been developed so far by Microsoft, IBM and others, but not their main competitors, and also not as an open standard. Moving it to the OASIS non-profit standards organisation could change that.
IMS Release General Webservices
IMS have released the public draft of their new General Web Sevices specification. The spec uses a profile of WS-I but narrows things down further in terms of messaging and error handling.
No upcoming events.
This site is Copyright © 2004-2012
[Website credits]   [About the ELF]
