The University of Hull - eServices Integration -
About e-Services Integration
Web Feedback | University portal
Search
The University of Hull
eServices Integration
eServices Integration
Home
Home
e-Services Staff
Presentations
Projects
Publications
Content Management
About e-Services Integration
The e-Services Integration Group of Academic Services was formed in the summer of 2003. The
objectives of e-SIG are to work with colleagues across sections of Academic Services, and the broader University community, to lead and co-ordinate the development of online services for the University.
e-SIG is currently actively pursuing the following development priorities:
Further developing the university portal, port.hull, and associated services
Deployment of the Hypercontent Web Content Management System
Evaluating and developing tools and environments to support e-Learning and e-Research
Evaluating and planning the deployment of an institutional repository
A key element of the work of e-SIG is the development of effective
national and international partnerships. e-SIG and its predecessors
have successfully managed a range of externally funded development
projects. Recent e-SIG externally funded projects include RepoMMan
(http://www.hull.ac.uk/esig/repomman/) RIDIR (http://www.hull.ac.uk/ridir/),
and REMAP (http://www.hull.ac.uk/remap/) Projects, funded uner the JISC Digital Repositories Programme, and CREE (http://www.hull.ac.uk/esig/cree/), funded under the
JISC Portals Programme.
eSIG also co-ordinates the eRESS Project (http://www.hull.ac.uk/esig/eress.html). The central objective of eReSS is to provide support to the JISC VRE Programme
by helping to identify suitable solutions for the interoperability of
Virtual Research Environment tools, applications, and resources. This
will, of necessity, cover both ongoing activities within the VRE
Programme and parallel activities in the wider Grid, eResearch and
related environments of interest. eReSS runs from March 2006 - February 2009, and will work in
parallel with current and future VRE projects to support their need for
information on interoperability and associated standards and
specifications.
e-SIG participates in the JASIG (http://www.ja-sig.org/) and JASIG-UK (http://www.ja- sig.org.uk/). Ian Dolphin, Head of e-Strategy and e-SIG is Vice President of JASIG (http://www.ja-sig.org/govern.html) and a member of the Board
of the Sakai Foundation (http://www.sakaiproject.org/). The University of Hull is a member of the Sakai Educational Partners Programme (SEPP).
The work of e-SIG has been recognized internationally. The Group has been chosen as a Sun Microsystems international “Centre of Excellence”. This recognises work undertaken by e-Services Integration and others across Academic Services and the university as a whole in the now-concluded Digital University Project, including
Deployment of the university portal, port.hull, based around uPortal from the Java Architectures Special Interest Group (JA-SIG)
Integration of a range of services accessed from port.hull
Development of a web content management system
Developing accessible interfaces for those with a range of visual impairments
The Centre represents a significant partnership with Sun Microsystems to further develop the aims of the Digital University Project, and brings considerable international prestige and recognition to the university for work in this area.
Updated July 12th 2007
Press Release
Hull Success in JISC Repositories Programme
The RIDIR project (Resourcing IDentifier
Interoperability for Repositories) is a project funded under the
auspices of the Joint Information Systems Committee 'Repositories and
Preservation' Programme. It is investigating the requirements for, and
benefits of, the clear use of persistent identifiers in order to
facilitate interoperability between digital repositories of different
types.
The REMAP project is a project funded under the
auspices of the Joint Information Systems Committee 'Repositories and
Preservation' Programme. It is investigating the use of a digital
repository to support the embedding of records management and digital
preservation within the context of a UK Higher Education institution.
Accessibility | FOI | Legal |
Privacy |
Copyright 2008 The University of Hull, Cottingham Road, Hull. HU6 7RX T: 01482
346311
