iridium; iridium; Newcastle University
You are here:
Newcastle University »
iridium
Skip to Content
Newcastle University
Search
Search For:
iridium
About our projectNews & EventsOutputsGet involvedRequirementsDisseminationContact Information
iridium
iridium represents a collaboration between the University Research Office, the Digital Institute, the University Library and Information Systems & Services. Project management will be performed by the Higher Education Academy Subject Centre for Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary Medicine (MEDEV) at the School of Medical Sciences Education Development. Simply put, its aim is to produce a complete holistic plan and infrastructure for Research Data Management in the University,making data generated by research at the University both available and discoverable with effective curation throughout the full data lifecycle in consultation with the researchers who produce it.
More about our project.
JISC Managing Research Data programme 2011-13
"The management of research data is recognised as one of the most pressing challenges facing the higher education and research sectors. Research data generated by publicly-funded research is seen as a public good and should be available for verification and re-use. In recognition of this principle, all UK Research Councils require their grant holders to manage and retain their research data for re-use, unless there are specific and valid reasons not to do so. Research data can also be the subject of requests under Freedom of Information legislation or Environmental Information Regulations. Not all the drivers for improved management and sharing of research data are ‘top-down’, however. Researchers who have experienced the innovative and transforming potential of data intensive research through data re-use, recombination or meta-analysis, are also calling for data to be as open as possible." - JISC MRD02
Link to JISC MRD02 programme.
iridium is a collaboration between the University Research Office, Digital Institute,  Information Systems & Services and the University Library with project management from MEDEV at the School of Medical Sciences Education Development
iridium@ncl.ac.uk
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon TyneNE1 7RU, United Kingdom.
© Newcastle University cc: by
