Armagh County Museum | Armagh
events, attraction or place
postcode or address
Home
Whats On
Places to Visit
Navan Centre & Fort
Armagh Planetarium
Cathedrals
Museum & Library
Gardens & Parklands
Activity & Adventure
Bramley Orchards
Things to do
Guided Tours
Unique Experiences
Top things to do
Cuisine
Bars
Cafes / Coffee Shops
Market Place Theatre
Omniplex Cinema
Gardens & Parklands
Shopping in Armagh
Activity & Adventure
Workshops
Places to Stay
Hotel
Hostel
Guest House
B&B
Self Catering
Camping and Caravanning
Contact Us
Welcome to Armagh
Getting Here
Visitor Guide
City Centre Map
Disability Access
Trade Login
Home » Armagh County Museum
Armagh County Museum
The oldest county museum in Ireland is set in Armagh’s beautiful Georgian tree lined Mall. Located near the centre of St Patrick’s cathedral city, a visit to Armagh County Museum is a ideal way to experience a flavour of the orchard county.
The unique character of the Museum’s architecture makes it one of the most distinctive buildings in the city.  Its collections capture centuries of stories relating to the people who lived, worked and had connections with this famous city and historic county.
Discover a rich and varied legacy revealed in objects ranging from prehistoric artefacts to household items from a bygone age.  There are military uniforms, wedding dresses, ceramics, natural history specimens and railway memorabilia. An impressive art collection includes works by many well known Irish artists such as AE Russell, John Luke and JB Vallely.
The Museum staff aim to ensure that all visitors feel welcome and are keen to help with enquiries.  There is an extensive reference library, rich in local archive material, along with photographic and map collections. With a range of changing exhibitions throughout the year, the Museum is an ideal place to begin and explore the fair county of Armagh.
Home
Collections
Learning
What’s on in the Museum
Natural History & Philosophical Society
Contact Us – Directions
Opening Times
Monday to Friday 10.00 – 17.00
Saturday 10.00 – 13.00 | 14.00 – 17.00
What’s On
Upcoming Events
Market Place Theatre
Cinema Listings
Places to Visit
Navan Centre & Fort
Armagh Cathedrals
Armagh Planetarium
Things to Do
Top things to do
Eating Out
Gardens & Parklands
Places to Stay
Hotels in Armagh
B&Bs
Self Catering
desktop site | mobile site
© 2016 Armagh. All rights reserved.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read MorePrivacy & Cookies Policy
