AAH - Association of Art Historians
AAH
Members Login |
Larger text
|
RSS feeds
Search
Any word
Exact phrase
Contents
Home
About
Membership & Benefits
Annual Conference
Art History
Events
Funding
Publications
Resources
Jobs & Opportunities
Campaigns
Noticeboard
Members Login
Members Groups
Students
Freelance & Independents
Museums & Exhibitions
Schools
Contacts
Promoting the professional practice and public understanding of art history
We are the leading subject association for art history and visual culture in the UK. The AAH plays a key role in helping shape and secure the future of art history. We support those involved in teaching, learning and research.
AAH News
Art History in the Pub, Loughborough
AAH News and Events
AHITP, Loughborough
Wednesday 22 February, 7pm
The Hop Loft, The Swan in the Rushes
FREE
Join us to hear Kathryn Brown talk about 'Haunting Art History'
Can visual art depict beings that are essentially invisible? Does the making visisibe through art betray the very essence of 'ghostliness'? If artworks create a role for the viewer in visual fictions, does the audience figure as a ghost-like presence in the world of a painting?
See more details
AAH2017 Annual Conference
AAH News and Events
AAH2017
6 - 8 April, University of Loughborough
Keynote Speakers: Amelia Jones, Mark Hallett and Suzanne Lacy
AAH2017 will celebrate the expansive spectrum of histories, theories and practices that characterize art historical research today. Early Booking: 1 March 2017
See more Details
AAH Membership
AAH News and Events
Your membership matters
AAH Membership offers a platform from which you can share, widen and maximise research and ideas. Membership is open to anyone working with, or interested in, art history, be it in education, museums, or freelancing.
We offer individual and institutional membership.
See more details
AAH Campaign
Education, Policy & Partnerships
AAH News and Events
Education, Policy and Partnerships
Our campaign work covers a range of areas including education, policy and partnerships. It builds on 4 decades of initiatives helping to shape and secure the future of the discipline within and beyond education, and to reach out to new audiences.
History of Art A level
We welcomed the announcement from Pearson regarding securing the future History of Art A level.
See more details and follow us @AAHeducation
Thinking About Art: A Thematic Guide to Art History
Our art history textbook is here
AAH News and Events
Available to order online
We're pleased to announce the publication of Thinking About Art: A Thematic Guide to Art History. This is the first A level art history textbook specifically for teachers and students, as well as a wider audience, with over 200 colour illustrations and a companion website.
AAH Members get a 20% discount
See more details
Art Historians & Arts Professionals
Online Directory
AAH News and Events
Art Historians & Arts Professionals is our online directory. AAH members can profile their skills and expertise. It's a resource for anyone looking for an expert on art or art history. Free to join and to use.
See more details
Noticeboard
17 February 2017
Call for papers - In and Out of American Art: Between Provincialism and Transnationalism, 1940–1980
In and Out of American Art: Between Provincialism and Transnationalism, 1940 -1980 is a major two-day conference at the University of St Andrews in October 2017. See more details >
16 February 2017
Art History in the Pub
AHITP, Loughborough
Wednesday 22 February, 7pm
The Hop Loft, The Swan in the Rushes
FREE
Join us at our 'pop up' AHITP to hear Kathryn Brown talk about 'Ghouls, Ghosts, and Goblins: Haunting Art History'
How can visual art depict beings that are essentially invisible? Does the making visisibe through art betray the very essence of 'ghostliness'? If artworks create a role for the viewer in visual fictions, does art's audience figure as a ghost-like presence in the world of a painting?
More details See more details >
13 February 2017
Conference - Decolonising History: Visualisations of Conflict in a ‘Post-War’ Europe, University College London
This interdisciplinary symposium seeks to engage with and challenge the notion of a ‘post-war Europe’ through the lens of artistic, photographic and filmic visualisations of decolonial struggles and their legacies. Writing in reference to France’s imperial and colonial past, in her book From a Nation Torn (2014) Hannah Feldman has argued that the notion of a ‘post-war’ Europe occludes many of the conflicts which evolved after the end of WW2. This symposium will consider these marginalised struggles through the lens of visual culture. See more details >
See all items on the Noticeboard
Sitemap | Help
Association of Art Historians | 70 Cowcross Street | London EC1M 6EJ | Tel: +44(0)20 7490 3211 | Registered Charity No. 1154066 | admin@aah.org.uk
