Bradford Museums and Galleries
Bradford Museums & Galleries
Home
What's on
Our venues
Learning
Get involved
Blog
Photo Archive
Object of the month
Search
Splendours of the Subcontinent: A Prince's Tour of India 1875-76
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
11 March - 18 June 2017
Recounting an extraordinary historical tour through modern day India, Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka
Animal Craft
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
10 December 2016 -
10 May 2017
A selling exhibition of contemporary UK designer-makers
Grafters: Industrial Society in Image and Word
Bradford Industrial Museum
3 December 2016 - 5 November 2017
Capturing the Industrial Revolution as Britain’s society changed
Red List - Walter G. Breuer
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
14 September 2016 - 2 April 2017
Photographs witnessing the decline of the 'shop' as we used to know it.
Object of the month
Various locations
Explore the collections online and even get involved! What is your favourite object?
Our Venues
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
Cliffe Castle Museum
Bradford Industrial Museum
Bolling Hall
Fundraising
The David Hockney Gallery
We will be celebrating the 80th birthday of David Hockney with a brand new gallery in honour of the city’s most famous son. We are raising money to make this gallery as fantastic as the artist and we need your help. Please donate today.
Explore
Object of the Month
Industrial landscape Ashton-under-Lyne, by LS Lowry - Industrial landscape Ashton-under-Lyne, 1952, by LS Lowry
David Tebb is our volunteer working in a museum assistant role in the Tony Bevan exhibition at Cartwright Hall. He has chosen this artwork by LS Lowry which can be found in Gallery ...
Ending Soon
Art in the Park, Lister Park
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
1 Mar - 1 Apr 2017
Art In The Park Lister Park
Stroll around Lister Park to view sculpture and public artwork, some on loan by the artists, others from Bradford’s own collections. See Bingley based artist Marcus Levine’s steel clout nail sculptur...
Event
Voicemail Harmony: acoustic and capella singers
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
Sun 19 Feb 2017
Unfortunately Classical Sicilian guitarist: Davide Sciacca has had to cancel this month's visit to the UK.
We know how popular he is and apologise to those who were looking forward to hearing him play.
However, the good news is at the las...
Join us
Volunteering
Through volunteering you are helping us to maintain and develop our collections, educational and community work.
Blog post
Splendours of the Subcontinent: The P...
As the opening of the Splendours of the Subcontinent exhibition at Cartwright Hall Art Gallery gets ever nearer, Kajal Meghani from the Royal Collection Trust has written us another blog providing additional context to the fantastic objects...
Latest Tweet
Newsletter
Keep up to date about exhibitions and events
Email Address
Follow us
Twitter
Facebook
Flickr
Instagram
Our Venues
Cartwright Hall Art Gallery
Cliffe Castle Museum
Bradford Industrial Museum
Bolling Hall
© 2017
Bradford Metropolitan District Council
Cookies
Contact us
Web design and web development by Maraid Design
