The British Library | Facebook
Facebookईमेल या फ़ोनपासवर्डखाता भूल गए?होमपरिचयफ़ोटोसमीक्षाएँईवेंटवीडियोपोस्टTripAdvisor ReviewsपसंदLive Webcastएक पेज बनाएँFacebook में लॉग इन करके The British Library में और देखेंइस पेज पर संदेश भेजें, आगामी ईवेंट, आदि के बारे में जानें. अगर आपका कोई Facebook खाता नहीं है, तो आप इस पेज पर और जानकारी देखने के लिए एक खाता बना सकते हैं.साइन अप करेंलॉग इन करेंFacebook में लॉग इन करके The British Library में और देखेंइस पेज पर संदेश भेजें, आगामी ईवेंट, आदि के बारे में जानें. अगर आपका कोई Facebook खाता नहीं है, तो आप इस पेज पर और जानकारी देखने के लिए एक खाता बना सकते हैं.साइन अप करेंलॉग इन करेंअभी नहींExplore the world's knowledge2,69,819 लोग इसे पसंद करते हैं1,08,818 people have been hereपरिचयसभी देखें96 Euston Road London NW1 2+44 330 333 1144www.bl.uk/पुस्तकालय · संग्रहालय · शिक्षा09:30 पूर्वाह्न बजे खुलेगा 09:30 पूर्वाह्न - 08:00 अपराह्नClosed Nowलोकप्रिय घंटेलोग2,69,819 पसंद1,08,818 विज़िटआगामी ईवेंटफ़रवरी21Shooting War: Photography, History, Representationमंगलवार 06:00 अपराह्न UTC · The British Library · London, England, United Kingdom15 लोगों की रुचि है
·7 लोग जा रहे हैंफ़रवरी23Julian Mitchell in Conversation with Polly Toynbeeगुरुवार 07:00 अपराह्न UTC · The British Library · London, England, United Kingdom3 लोगों की रुचि है
·2 लोग जा रहे हैंफ़रवरी25Japan Nowशनिवार 11:00 पूर्वाह्न UTC · The British Library · London, England, United Kingdom3 लोगों की रुचि है
·3 लोग जा रहे हैंसभी ईवेंट देखेंइस पेज द्वारा पसंद कियाScience @ The British LibraryThe Folio SocietyThe British Newspaper Archiveलोगों ने इसे भी पसंद कियाShakespeare's Globeप्रदर्शन कला थिएटरRoyal Academy of Artsकला स्कूलEnglish National Operaप्रदर्शन कला थिएटरलाइब्रेरी London, United Kingdom मेंस्थानLondon, United Kingdomपुस्तकालयThe British Libraryहिन्दी · ਪੰਜਾਬੀ · اردو · ગુજરાતી · English (UK)गोपनीयता · शर्तें · विज्ञापन · विज्ञापन विकल्प · कुकी · अधिक Facebook © 2017फ़ोटोसभी देखेंसमीक्षाएँ9,434 समीक्षाएँलोगों को बताएँ कि आप क्या सोचते हैंShawn Farrell · 21 नवंबर 2016As a library professional, I could not pass up an opportunity visit The British Library, & after browsing its extraordinary collections & rare manuscripts, of c...ourse I wanted to take something of it home with me.
From the punk exhibition to Jane Eyre. From some of western civilization's best known works of literature to some of our most indigestible swill, the British Library's collection speaks to us as a people.
And what better way to speak to us than through a gift shop?
I'd worked for many years for one of the best known public libraries in the world which has its own gift shop, but hasn't always done a tremendous job at exploring its potential.
Here is where the British Library could give a master class.
Yes, it has any number of things you'd expect: books, of course - children's books, books set in London, etc.
And items with designs inspired by some of the more memorable pieces in its collection, such as magnets & tube card holders.
But where it really shines is the availability of CDs & other media of productions sponsored by the British Library. Readings, musical performances & the like.
After you've enjoyed your time exploring the library itself, do make a point of browsing the shop. अधिक देखेंKelly Wood-barlow · 3 फ़रवरी 2017the library is more than a library, it has great historical items, great, Important, historical pieces of writing, original handwriting from famous writers to g...reat minds, I particularly enjoyed all the ancient historical sacred texts, and of course the Magna Carta, in the room with the Magna Carta, the original book wasn't there ( it had temporarily been removed- that was shame) however, all the wording and descriptions were of course there, along with the videos and texts etc ... It's great to see that
so many students studying in there, if all the libraries in the country were like this, we certainly wouldn't have any problems with getting any child or adult to pick up a book and read it, nor any funding issues.
The staff were all very friendly and extremely helpful, except the one who gave me strong words and a glare for me taking photographs of the things that interested me- I don't know why they do not allow this? I've been in many museums around the world and some of
them allow you to take photos ( and rightly so) and some don't.
I spent several hours in here and I had a great day! I would highly recommend to anybody, and to all ages. The ancient books going from floor to ceiling, up the centre of the building are breath taking- I wasn't sure that this section was open to the public- I think it was just for the staff and for display.
The gift shop is good & the cafe is good.
Most definitely located in a fabulous part of London, with lots of other wonderful museums nearby to check out, along with top notch hotels, restaurants, pubs & bars playing live music. I think the name of the place should be brought up to modern times and changed to ... The British Library #museum अधिक देखेंDebbie Frearson · 9 फ़रवरी 2017We visited the library yesterday with the sole purpose of viewing the Jane Austen papers, it was a delight to view all the other documents in the room but there... were some fundamental problems.
The items on display were not in the best position in the cases, you had to lean quite a way with poor light (obviously for conservation), this is fine for a couple of viewings, but the whole room was like this.
This led to eye strain and back ache because it took a while to go around everything.
It would have been far better to have had translations of the pages on every document (including religious texts) available to view, we could have seen and admired the originals in their display case, then taken time to read what they said.
Jane Austen had a few sentences on the information plaques, but they were a bit dull.
I would have preferred this to the tv screens with the digitisation which showed exactly the same as the cases. अधिक देखेंKhalida Ali · 14 फ़रवरी 2017Me and my daughters had only a short time here as we would be leaving London a few hours later. I don't know what the issue was but we were constantly followed ...around to the point my daughters wanted to leave. Due to a jam packed visit my youngest was tired and wanted to just sit on the benches but this was fine as long as myself and my older daughter could explore the library.
We finally decided to leave but popped into the shop only to have a security guard shadow us through out. Totally ruined the experience and showed how judgemental and racist some staff are. Your staff or whoever decides who to shadow need serious training
I'd most definitely not recommend to any other women wearing a scarf for faith purposes. अधिक देखेंNikki Barber · 21 नवंबर 2016Frequently a port in a storm for me and it was great to take my nephew and niece to show them our national library, the Treasures exhibition and the contemporar...y mappa mundi from Hereford Cathedral right at the top level. I wanted to fan the flames for a love of learning and reading and this is why I brought them they are 7 and 9. They liked the music scores in the Treasures and the scale of the books towering up high in the central bit. The hot chocolate was well received too. अधिक देखेंSharon O'Connor · 4 दिसंबर 2016The food has really gone down hill since the new contractors Graysons have taken over. I used to love the mushroom pie from Peyton and Byrne, a much classier ca...terer and what I would expect from such a fantastic place as the British Library. You need to monitor the quality of the food offered. Yuk! अधिक देखेंKaustubh KP Prabhu · 21 जनवरी 2017It was a fascinating experience for me. I had reserved a couple of books online for my research and it was so easy to get hold of a Readers' pass, that meant I ...could access most areas of the Library. The common areas were busy and I couldn't find a place to sit, but the staff were super helpful and facilities outstanding. Definitely returning. अधिक देखेंRuss Sharp · 29 नवंबर 2016The amount of access to all books is obviously great. It would be nice if the librarians could do a full days work like everybody else and open the reading rooms from 9am. Cafe is stupidly expensive for what it is. They could also put the thermostat up a bit in the reading rooms.Bryan Machin · 29 जनवरी 2017Although we only had 75 minutes to look round I saw enough to wet my appetite to come back again. This was my first visit and hope it will not be my last. The s...hortage of time was due to the fact it was an impulse visit and a Saturday afternoon, so next time will be better organised. Overall I was blown away with what I saw. अधिक देखेंMariam Pal · 26 नवंबर 2016I love the British Library. It is a welcoming place where I felt at home immediately. Physically the architecture is beautiful.
I had applied for readers card ...from Canada and was able to complete my registration quickly and efficiently with the help of very nice staff. Getting my books was easy.
I spent time in the Asian reading room which is a very well appointed and comfortable place to read and take notes.
I had several meals in the Kings restaurant which were very nice and picked up a few things in the gift shop. All in all I'm glad I discovered the British Library. अधिक देखेंDavid Bowden · 19 दिसंबर 2016My first visit as I needed to kill time before my train left kings Cross. I went in to see "Maps and the 20th Century" and I'm obviously not a typical visitor as the Curator did a double take when I presented my ticket. Never the less it was well worth the visit, thank you.Jo Carter · 29 जनवरी 2017We visited the Maps Exhibition, which we paid £6 instead of the £12 entrance fee (Art Card holders). It was really interesting and there was quite a lot to see. We wandered into the general exhibition area and if you're a bibliophile, it's a great place to go.Wendy Parkinson · 18 दिसंबर 2016The design of the place is brilliant and the collection of original exhibits is amazing. Will have to go back when the Magna Carta has finished its tour!Denise Brown · 16 जनवरी 2017The content of the map exhibition. Is amazing but the curation left a great deal to be desired. They need someone from Compton Verney to show them how to do it.Peta Strachan · 1 दिसंबर 2016Even though I didn't get to see everything; this was an incredible experience. I will definitely visit again especially to see the early writings of the greats:... Shakespeare, Hardy, Wilfred Owen to name a few. It is fascinating to see the early drafts and the changes their craft went through. .. I am excited to look at these again.
Truly wonderfully awesome. अधिक देखेंYehor Brailian · 7 दिसंबर 2016Good evening !
My name is Yehor Brailian. I am PhD student of historical faculty Kiyv National Taras Schevchenko University (Ukraine). Now I am Erasmus student... for winter semester 2016/2017 in Konstanz University, Germany. I'm writing PhD work about British Caribbean in 1931 - 1983. Can you help me with some sources about this period (archives, documents, memoirs) and literature or some links with these materials. Also I'm interested in grants or programmes connected with analyzing political and economical history of British West Indies in 1931 - 1983. अधिक देखेंPenny Ward · 3 दिसंबर 2016Maps and the 20th Century: Drawing the Line - worth every penny of the entry fee. Fascinating, thought provoking and educational. Highly recommend it, thank youNick Cavender · 18 फ़रवरी 2017I love the exhibitions at the British Library. They have 160 million items in their collection, so it is no surprise they curate such interesting collections. T...om Harper has put together some fabulous artefacts highlighting the political, military and economic ways that maps have been used in the 20th Century. अधिक देखेंMartyn James · 14 फ़रवरी 2017Well worth a visit....Went to see map exhibition but books in display worth visit in there own.Archie Campbell · 16 नवंबर 2016I love the Treasures exhibition and the shop. Lovely place to just hang out near the big stations too.सभी देखेंवीडियोMaps and the 20th Century: Drawing the Line23520Over the centuries Magna Carta has influenced kings and statesmen, lawyers and lawmakers, prisoners, Chartists and Suffragettes. But how did this old piece of parchment become such a powerful symbol of our rights and freedoms?
Narrated by Monty Python’s Terry Jones, this animation explores Magna Carta’s 800 year legacy.2443Since February young people have been debating their online rights and responsibilities and submitting clauses for a Magna Carta for the digital age. Now it’s your turn. Visit our brand new interactive site to read the clauses and have your say.
Vote now: po.st/VoteMyDigitalRights44सभी देखेंपोस्टThe British Library · 14 घंटे · Astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus was born #onthisday in 1473.
At the time, people believed that the earth was at the centre of the universe, and that the sun and planets revolved around it. But this model couldn't explain the patterns seen in paths through the sky over time.
Copernicus argued that the positions of the stars and planetary orbits could be better explained by the sun being at the centre of the universe with the planets rotating around it. His ideas would not be widely accepted until the 17th century http://bit.ly/2lwxVD5The British Library ने 4 नई फ़ोटो जोड़ीं. · कल 05:10 पूर्वाह्न बजे · Planning a visit to our #BLMaps exhibition this weekend? We recommend booking ahead to avoid disappointment http://bit.ly/2lOVZyFसभी देखेंपोस्टThe British Library ने 3 नई फ़ोटो जोड़ीं. · 17 फ़रवरी को 02:30 पूर्वाह्न बजे · What do you notice about these maps? Part of Benjamin Hennig’s ‘Anthropocene world’ collection, they show a view of the world at the beginning of the 21st century. Blending spatial data with population data, these digital maps are known as ‘gridded cartograms’. Each cell on the map represents an equal geographic area that is then resized in line with its total population according to an algorithm. You can see the extent of globalisation and how the world is connected through ...lines representing shipping routes (white), roads (green), railways (orange) and pipelines (red). Explore the changes in mapping perspectives during the 20th century with our #BLMaps website http://bit.ly/2kpAG9B अधिक देखेंThe British Library · 16 फ़रवरी को 08:59 पूर्वाह्न बजे · Angela Carter died #onthisday in 1992. Like every great author of Gothic fiction, she was blessed with an intensely vivid and dark imagination. Gothic imagery permeated all of her work but nowhere more so than in The Bloody Chamber and Other Stories with its moonlit forests, graveyards and isolated castles.
From the Marquis de Sade to Edgar Allan Poe, explore the Gothic influence on her stories http://bit.ly/2lSR3cbThe British Library ने 3 नई फ़ोटो जोड़ीं. · 15 फ़रवरी को 07:16 पूर्वाह्न बजे · From Jane Austen's treasured notebooks to her writing desk, find out what you can expect to see at our Jane Austen Among Family and Friends display, ending this Sunday 19 February. http://bit.ly/2lhAlFFThe British Library · 15 फ़रवरी को 02:30 पूर्वाह्न बजे · Has our Maps and the 20th Century: Drawing the Line exhibition inspired you to explore more maps in our collection? #Onthisday in 1942 British-held Singapore fell to the Japanese and was not liberated until 5 September 1945. This post-invasion map, published in 1944, shows the docks and naval yard in 1941-2 Singapore. http://bit.ly/2ezqnteThe British Library · 14 फ़रवरी को 03:27 पूर्वाह्न बजे · Probably the oldest surviving Valentine's letter in the English language, in February 1477 Margery Brews wrote to her fiancé John Paston, her 'right well-beloved valentine'.
She confides that her father is unable to provide as substantial a dowry as they had hoped. However, she says, if John loves her he will marry her anyway: 'But if you love me, as I trust verily that you do, you will not leave me therefore.' The couple would eventually marry and their son, William,
would become a prominent figure at the court of King Henry VIII. http://bit.ly/1LgRDWcThe British Library · 13 फ़रवरी को 02:32 पूर्वाह्न बजे · What do maps mean to you? #MapMondayThe British Library · 9 फ़रवरी को 03:27 पूर्वाह्न बजे · 'Maps are the great realist form of representation. You can look at a map time and time again and somehow you don't feel that you've seen it before.' Last month, Jerry Brotton, Adam Lowe and Grayson Perry discussed art, maps and digital data at the British Library. #ThrowbackThursday There's less than three weeks left to see how maps made the world we live in at our #BLMaps exhibition and events. http://bit.ly/2kpSQnGArt, Maps and the World: Jerry Brotton, Adam Lowe and Grayson ...The British Library ने पोस्ट किया3,417 बार देखा गया3.4 हज़ार बार देखा गयाThe British Library · 8 फ़रवरी को 03:24 पूर्वाह्न बजे · At the age of 16, Jane Austen wrote a spoof History of England which mimics the history books she read as a child. She provides a comic account of England from Henry IV to Charles I as told by ‘a partial, prejudiced, & ignorant historian’. The narrator can be seen to be frequently distracted by his or her opinions of the events and people being described. A note on the bottom of the first page also marks out the tone of the tale: ‘N.B. There will be very few Dates in this his...tory’.
Austen's History of England, together with her other teenage writings, can now be seen in a special display in our Treasures Gallery. Jane Austen Among Family and Friends is open until 19 February http://bit.ly/2kGU5zW #BLTreasures Photo: Tony Antoniou अधिक देखेंThe British Library · 7 फ़रवरी को 09:11 पूर्वाह्न बजे · 'There is a wisdom of the head, and...there is a wisdom of the heart.' Born #onthisday in 1812, Charles Dickens is perhaps as famous today as he was in his lifetime. In much of his work, he drew attention to poverty and social issues in Victorian Britain, something that he had experienced first hand. His time spent labelling bottles in a factory as a child while his father was in prison for debt left a lasting impression on him. Pictured here with his notes, Hard Times was hi...s shortest novel. Set in a fictional place called Coketown, it explores the impact of industrialisation and opens with the harsh utilitarian philosophy of Thomas Gradgrind, a schoolmaster who insists on his pupils learning only ‘Facts’, and ‘nothing else.’ As Dickens wrote to his friend Charles Knight later in 1854, ‘my satire is against those who see figures and averages, and nothing else’. http://bit.ly/2lmjjn2 अधिक देखेंThe British Library · 7 फ़रवरी को 02:30 पूर्वाह्न बजे · Capturing the optimism of the early months of World War I, this competition map appeared in the Financial Times in 1914.
Players were invited to redraw the boundaries of Europe, guessing what they would look like at the end of the war. The entry which most closely reflected the eventual state of Europe would receive a prize of £25. The wars that took place in the 20th century saw a great increase in the use of maps by the military, as well as a spike in public interest. See ...crucial maps created during wartime at our Maps and the 20th Century: Drawing the Line exhibition. http://bit.ly/2jUCRwK #BLMaps अधिक देखेंThe British Library · 3 फ़रवरी को 03:11 पूर्वाह्न बजे · How old do you think this cartographic gem is? This colourful map may look like one of the older ones from our #BLMaps collection, but it was created in 1942 by the British artist MacDonald Gill for his world map called ‘The Time and Tide Map of the Atlantic Charter’. Commissioned by Time and Tide magazine, the map celebrates the Atlantic Charter, an agreement made in 1942 between the USA and Britain which set out their joint war aims and established the principles by which p...eace would be attained. See this stunning item in our exhibition of extraordinary maps and discover just how much maps have moulded our past, present and future. http://bit.ly/2koLZfe Image © The Estate of Macdonald Gill अधिक देखेंThe British Library · 2 फ़रवरी को 03:18 पूर्वाह्न बजे · 'Every life is in many days, day after day. We walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers-in-love, but always meeting ourselves.' James Joyce was born #onthisday in 1882. He started work on Ulysses in 1914. Parts of the story were considered too obscene for publication at the time and its first appearance as a series in The Little Review met with scandal and controversy, as well as a prosecution for the magazine. Joyce was finally able to publish his novel in Paris in 1922, thanks to his friend Sylvia Beach, owner of the bookshop Shakespeare and Company. Take a closer look at this first edition of Ulysses: bit.ly/2jEa3ZAThe British Library · 1 फ़रवरी को 06:48 पूर्वाह्न बजे · Starting our #AustenQuotes with these opening words to Pride and Prejudice. Which line do you quote most from her novels?
Don't miss the chance to see three remarkable manuscripts of Jane Austen’s teenage writings, now on display in our free Treasures Gallery until 19 February: bit.ly/2jCXeyB
#JaneAusten200और देखें
