Computing History - The UK Computer Museum - Cambridge
Donate
Mailing List
TwitterFacebookInstagram
Home
Visiting
Visiting
How To Find Us
What's On
Accessibility
Contact Us
Museum Shop
About
News
About
Sponsors
People
Education
Education Group Visits
Outreach - Visiting Your School
Research
Learning Resources
Computing History Timeline
Exhibits
Computers
Computers By Date
Viva Computer
Game Consoles
Calculators
Browse Our Archive
Latest Additions
Donate Items
Services
Vintage Computer Hire
External Exhibitions
Venue Hire
Kids Retro Gaming Parties
Museum Shop
Discover how computers became personal!
Open 5 days a week
Wednesday to Sunday
Find out more about
our schools programme
here
Step into
a world
of computing
Fun for
ALL
the family
Making the
History of Computing
relevant and fun!
welcome_to
The Centre for Computing History is a charitable, heritage organisation with a strong focus on learning. Much more than a museum, it hosts hands-on exhibitions, educational workshops and a wide range of activities and events. Most importantly, it makes the history of personal computing relevant and fun for all ages!
The history of computers is the history of our modern world. The Centre's aim is to increase understanding of developments in personal computing over the past 50 years.
We are located in Cambridge, and we hope you'll visit us very soon!
what's_on
Date: 25th February 2017
Teletext Block Party 2017 - Saturday 25th and Sunday 26th February
Date: 4th March 2017
Live Retro Comedy Night - Saturday 4th March 2017
Date: 10th March 2017
Retro Video Game Night - Friday 10th March 2017
See all Events here ...
quick_links
latest_news
Hasta la Vista Rachel!
Today we said goodbye to Rachel, one of our key learning volunteers. (08-02-2017)
Celebrating Safer Internet Day with Cambridge's Heritage School
Today, 7th February, is international Safer Internet Day (SID) and the Centre for Computing History has been marking this important, annual event with pupils from the Heritage School, Cambridge. (07-02-2017)
Supporting Safer Internet Day #SID2017
Safer Internet Day will take place on Tuesday 7th February with the theme 'Be the change: unite for a better internet'. (31-01-2017)
join_us
We need your skills and passion!
Could you volunteer? By giving your time you can help us enthuse children, parents and teachers about the technology that fills our world. Hands-on projects including archiving, photography, filming, front of house and exhibit maintenance.
Find out what other opportunities we have on offer ...
Sponsor a Project
Are you a business? Would you be interested in sponsoring any of these projects? Maybe one of them dovetails with your interests and you'd be keen to sponsor the project? In return, we would promote your company through high profile recognition at the museum.
Small Businesses
We understand that many businesses lack the financial resources to donate to our computer museum project, but perhaps you would be keen to help in return for a web link to your company website? Please visit our sponsors page to see how this works.
Archive Statistics :
Computers = 863
Peripherals = 1251
Mobile Devices = 26
Game Consoles = 196
Video Games = 9115
Software Packages = 2287
Books = 1967
Manuals = 3902
Magazines = 8855
Founding Sponsors
Heritage Lottery Funded
Visiting The Museum
Education Group Visits
What's On!
Museum News
Gaming Parties
Venue Hire
Contact Us
Dates in History
Game Consoles
Computers
Calculators
Search Our Archive
Latest Additions
Donate Computers
Vintage Computer Hire
Retro Gaming Events
External Exhibitions
Museum Shop
Retro Gaming Night
Corporate Sponsorship
Join Us!
The Centre for Computing History
Rene Court Coldhams Road Cambridge CB1 3EW Tel : +44 (0) 1223 214446Email : admin@computinghistory.org.uk
© The Centre for Computing History | Registered Charity No: 1130071
Web Design by Pure Energy
donate to us!
Be_part_of_our_story...
Since opening at the end of 2013, over 5,000 children have visited the Centre. These children deserve a space which is engaging and instructive, where they can feel a sense of adventure, exploration and surprise!
Please be assured that any amount you feel able to donate will make an immediate and significant impact.
join_our_maillist!
Keep_up_to_date...
Join our Mailing List by adding your email address below and be kept up to date with lots of information including:
News & Information
Upcoming Events
New Exhibits
Competitions & Giveaways
School Visits
New Shop Products
