The Cunarders
Home
RMS Queen
Southampton Ocean
Sir Samuel
Cunardqueens
QE2 Statistics
Mauretania2
Saxonia
The Cunarders -
Stay Connected
Tweet
info@thecunarders.co.uk
Welcome to our "The Cunarders" website
Welcome
to our "The Cunarders"
website celebrating the great ships of Cunard Line.  The Cunard
Line was founded in 1840 by Sir Samuel Cunard and has become one of the
most famous British shipping lines and its ships still sail its
traditional transatlantic route today in the 21st century thus enabling
passengers to continue to enjoy and relive the
history and traditions from the Golden Age of Ocean Travel.
Cunard Line over the years has produced
some of Britain's greatest ocean liners and is closely associated with
many great ships such as Mauretania, Lusitania, Aquitania, Caronia and
of
course the legendary Cunard Queens. Many of its ships have given
sterling service through war and peace. But not to be forgotten is the
Carpathia and her epic role in the rescuing of the survivors from the
ill fated Titanic. As a result her story lives on and she has become a
legend.
Today the Carpathia and her story is forever intertwined with
that of the Titanic and her tragic sinking on her maiden voyage in the
early hours of the 15th April 1912 after hitting an iceberg in the
North Atlantic.
This
renowned shipping line has
long
been associated with the transatlantic route to New York and from 1911
the
Dominion
route to Canada. Cunard Line reached its centenary in 1940. It intended
to celebrate this with the launch of the Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth
on the two ship weekly transatlantic service from 1940 but sadly the
Second
World War intervened and this was not realised until 1947.
Due to the
war there were no celebrations to mark Cunard Line's centenary. In 1965
Cunard Line celebrated its 125th Anniversary. Indeed
with its long and illustrious history, it
is fitting that Cunard Line has for many years
celebrated its inspiring, legendary and illustrious past and promoted
the remarkable fact that it has "The Most Famous Ocean Liners in the
World".
In recent years there
have been many ownership changes to Cunard Line.
In 1971 it was bought
by Trafalgar
House Investments Ltd, a company with interests in property, civil
engineering, hotel ownership, house building and investments. In 1990
Cunard Line celebrated its 150th Anniversary. In 1996
Cunard was acquired by the Norwegian company, Knaevner.
Finally in 1998
it was bought by Carnival Corporation, the American cruise giant set up
by Ted Arison. In 2003 Carnival Corporation merged with the British
cruise giant, P&O Princess Cruises PLC, to form a dual listed
company as Carnival Corporation and PLC headquartered in both London
and Miami. This merger created the largest cruise company in the
world.
Today the line is part
of the Carnival
Corporation & PLC cruise empire and is now enjoying renewed success
and is entering a new Golden Age with a new pair of Cunard Queens
gracing the world's oceans in the form of the famous RMS Queen
Elizabeth 2 and the new RMS Queen Mary 2. In 2007 history was made
when
these legendary ships were joined by another Queen - the Queen
Victoria - giving Cunard Line for the first time ever a trio of Cunard
Queens.
In 2008 the legendary QE2 was retired from service and sailed
off into preservation in Dubai as a hotel, restaurant and entertainment
complex. In 2010 the new Queen Elizabeth entered service and once again
brought the fleet
back up to a trio of Cunard Queens once again and thus the Golden Age
continues. Today the fleet is one of the youngest in the cruise
industry and comprises the Queen Mary 2, Queen Victoria and Queen
Elizabeth. In 2015, Cunard Line will celebrate its 175th Anniversary
and its legacy and tradtions will continue into the future.
<13'>
Celebrating the great ships of Cunard Line.
The Cunard Line was founded in 1840 by Sir Samuel Cunard and has become one of the most infamous British shipping lines and its ships still sail its traditional transatlantic route today in the 21st century thus enabling passengers to continue to enjoy and relive the history and traditions from the Golden Age of Ocean Travel.
http://www.buckys.co.uk/ is a good resource for maritime related information.
Contact us below
PLEASE ENTER YOUR MESSAGE
Keep Updated on The Cunarders
Subscribe to our mailing list for offers, news updates and more!
2016 © Copyright
- thecunarders.co.uk All rights reserved. Email: info@thecunarders.co.uk
