Discovery | Home
HomeVisionThe Business CaseDeveloper ZoneProjectsNews & Events
Welcome to Discovery
Towards a thriving metadata ecosystem
The JISC -funded Discovery programme was launched in May 2011 to create 'a metadata ecology' to support better access to vital collections data in libraries,
archives and museums and facilitate new services for UK education and research.
Our work will continue to the end of 2012 and is focused on advocating open data, reducing technical and licensing barriers, providing information, advice and training,
and supporting exemplars.
The Discovery programme takes forward the Vision of the earlier JISC and RLUK Resource Discovery Taskforce (RDTF) which has been working with partners from the libraries,
archives and museums since 2010.
Licensing Clinic,30 Nov 2012
An opportunity for managers and decision makers in libraries, archives & museums to get practical advice from our experts at our second Licensing Clinic.
learn more
Licensing Clinic,30 Nov 2012An opportunity for managers and decision makers in libraries, archives & museums to get practical advice from our experts at our second Licensing Clinic.
Discovery Open Metadata PrinciplesJoin the Resource Discovery Task Force partners in adopting a set of principles for opening up data.
Feedback from the Community"Anything that helps people to make more meaningful use of resources is a good thing"
Open Data – the Missing Link?Ken Chad positions Discovery in the context of global and national thinking.
Practical guide to Licensing Open DataA guide for organisations considering the issues associated with licensing open data. By Naomi Korn & Prof. Charles Oppenheim
Open Bibliography WorkshopDiscussion and debate during the day ranged over both technical and strategic issues.
Jerome at the University of LincolnThe purpose of the Jerome project is a rather ambitious one.
CoMET Sighted in the EastCOMET (Cambridge Open METadata) aims to release over 2.2 million catalogue records under a Public Domain Dedication License
Opening Up Metadata:Challenges, Standards and Tools"Discovery collaborated with the Open Knowledge Foundation and DevCSI to run a workshop dedicated to looking at the technical challenges to opening up metadata
in the cultural heritage sector.
Case Studies and Guidance
How institutions are enabling Discovery. Examples from across the sector, plus supporting guidance material
Case Studies
Planning to release data?
What are the benefits of releasing data? Why are we emphasising open licensing?
The Business Case
Developer tools & resources
A work in progress, this section of the site will be developed as we develop technical guidelines and identify more data sources.
Developer Zone
#ukdiscovery
Discovery Blog
What's new?
Read our newsletter to find out the latest news from Discovery.
Videos
Browse all >
