Home - Exploring Surrey's Past
Home
People
Places
Times
Themes
Collections
News
Ask a Question
Advanced | Map | Image
Museums in Surrey There are over 40 museums in Surrey, you can also see a workhouse, find out about rural life or visit the county archive. We hold information on many of their collections.
More
Start Exploring Use Exploring Surrey’s Past to help you find out more about your local history and archaeology.
More
Explore Themes. Here you will find an array of different sections, dedicated to the history and archaeology of Surrey.
More
Explore the Maps Search Geocoded records with our new Map Search facility.
More
PeopleH G Wells and Woking, explore the connection
Top picks in this section
Surrey has a wealth of sporting heritage, read more.
Which author, real name Rev Charles Lutwidge Dodgson regularly visited Guildford?
PlacesPillboxes: take a tour around Surrey's extensive network of WWII pillboxes
Top picks in this section
Epsom; famous for more than the Derby
Can you help solve the mystery of Marden Castle, Godstone?
TimesNew: Surrey's Historic Environment Record Blogs
Find out about Surrey's Archaeology, Historic Buildings and more.
Top picks in this section
Surrey in the Age of Magna Carta.
When was Britain's first grand-prix held?
News
February is LGBT (Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans) History Month 2017 January 27, 2017 ESP Admin
Holocaust Memorial Day 2017 – How Can Life Go On? January 1, 2017 ESP Admin
It’s a wrap! – the new Journey’s End film is at editing stage December 23, 2016 ESP Admin
Mapping Heritage Data and ‘World GIS Day’ November 24, 2016 HER Assistant
From Journey’s End to The Dam Busters: The Life of R C Sherriff,
Playwright of the Trenches. Author Talk by Roland Wales. November 23, 2016 ESP Admin
First World War ProjectsDuring 2014-2018 the world will commemorate the centenary of the Great War, and Surrey Heritage intends to play its part.
To Journey’s End and Beyond: the Legacy of R C Sherriff
Surrey in the Great War: A County Remembers
Surrey Heritage Blogs
ThemesAn array of different sections, dedicated to the history and archaeology of Surrey.
Read about Agriculture and Transport
Find out about Surrey's sporting heritage
Explore Surrey from the Palaeolithic (Old Stone Age) to the present day
A novel way to research your family tree! https://t.co/ah5gpdKzxg https://t.co/WPudHpVRhW
Exploring Surrey's PastPagesNews
Site Map
Help
Talks and Tours
Leaflets
Terms of Use
Credits
Developers and API
Contact Us
The LatestSignal The Fleet! Surrey's Semaphore Stations From the Late 18th Century Surrey formed part of a crucial communication […]More© 2012 Exploring Surrey's Past 2012
