The Feminist Library
| Archiving our herstories since 1975
↓ Skip to Main Content
Home
About
The Feminist Library Bookshop
Newsletters
Our Manifesta
Community Policy
Press Coverage
Our activities
Women’s Studies Without Walls
40th Anniversary Salons
Writer in residence
Catalogue
About our collection
News
Events
Visit
Support
Donate
Finding a new home
Friends Scheme
Testimonials in support of the Feminist Library
Leave a legacy to the Feminist Library
Volunteer
Contact
The Feminist Library
Archiving our herstories since 1975
The Feminist Library is a large collection of Women's Liberation Movement literature based in London. We have been supporting research, activist and community projects since 1975.
In 2015 The Feminist Library celebrates 40 years of archiving and activism. Totally volunteer run, we have created and looked after one of the most important collections of feminist material in all of the UK, and provided an inspiring learning and social space for thousands of people.
HELP THE FEMINIST LIBRARY
MOVE TO A A NEW HOME!
Update: Good News - the Library is on its way to a new home – but not for a while!
We are very pleased to announce that we have reached an agreement with Southwark Council to let us stay in our current home until we move into new premises.
Our plan is to move next year into a space at OKRS
(Old Kent Road Studios), a new venue on the Ledbury Estate, SE15.
Support Us
Support our move
- Become a Friend, Support the Library
From as little as £3 a month you can help secure our long term future.
Watch: Ali Smith Supporting the Feminist Library Friends Scheme
- Make a one-off donation
- Volunteer Fundraising
Hold a sponsored event, sale or auction - we can support you.
- Keep in Touch
Sign up for our newsletter.
Visit Us
Winter Break: The Feminist Library will close for our Winter holidays from Friday 16th December until Wednesday 4th January 2017. The Feminist Library Bookshop will close after Saturday 10th December and will reopen on Saturday 7th January 2017.
Usual opening hours:
Monday 7-9pm
Tuesday 7-9pm
Wednesday 2-6pm
Thursday 7-9pm
Friday 11-5pm
Saturday 12-5pm for the Feminist Library Bookshop
The library is located at:
5 Westminster Bridge Road
London
SE1 7XW
(map)
Please note:Lambeth North tube station is out of action until Feb 2017
Latest news
Wed 1st Feb – Knowledge Share – Did you know South London Women’s Centre?
February 1, 2017
Andrea Needham Book Talk – Wed 18 Jan
January 11, 2017
Visit to the Bishopsgate Institute
December 7, 2016
The Art of (Festive) Appetite: what we can learn from a forgotten food rebel
December 7, 2016
A Very Long way from Anywhere Else – Book Review
December 7, 2016
Collection The Feminist Library holds a large archive collection of Women’s Liberation Movement literature, particularly second-wave materials dating from the late 1960s to the 1990s
What's in the collection?
Access the collections catalogue here
© 2017
The Feminist Library
↑
Responsive Theme
powered by
WordPress
