Compare Insurance online and Save!
Home
Personal
Caravan Insurance
Classic Car Insurance
Motorhome Insurance
Business
Courier Insurance
Fleet Insurance
Landlord Insurance
Motor Trade Insurance
Shop Insurance
Taxi Insurance
Truck Insurance
Unoccupied Property Insurance
Select Page
Findit.org.uk - Compare and Save on Your Insurance
Whether you need insurance for your own personal vehicle, or you run your own business and need insurance to protect your assets, Findit.org.uk want to make things easier.
It’s no secret that one of the best ways to save money on any type of insurance is to get multiple quotes. In the past this would have meant calling different insurance providers individually and having to negotiate to get the best deal. Luckily this is no longer the case.
By clicking the red button on any of the insurance pages on the site, you can get tailored quotes from a panel of insurance providers who specialist in that area. This not only saves you a great deal of time and effort, but could also save you a lot of money!
Types of Insurance Available
Below are some of the types of insurance you can get quotes for –
Classic Car Insurance
Motorhome Insurance
Caravan Insurance
Shop Insurance
Fleet Insurance (via cheapfleet.co.uk)
Landlord Insurance
Motor Trade Insurance
Taxi Insurance
Truck Insurance
Courier Insurance
Unoccupied Property Insurance
Common Vehicle Insurance Options
Whilst the type of cover you get will of course depend on what type of vehicle you’re insuring, there are certain cover options that are common to most types of vehicle. These include –
Third Party – Third party insurance is the lowest type of cover you can get for a vehicle whilst still being able to drive legally. As the name suggests, it’s of more value to other road users as it will cover anyone you might be involved in a collision with when you’re to blame.
Fire & Theft – Fire and theft are always risks for vehicle owners so having them covered in your policy is never a bad idea.
Vandalism – Vandalism is a very real danger, especially when you have a more expensive vehicle or classic car. Therefore you should always insure that vandalism is covered in your policy.
Comprehensive – Comprehensive insurance is the best type of cover for vehicle owners. If provides for protection for your own vehicle, even when you’re involved in a collision that you’re responsible for. Whilst it might cost more than third party insurance, it will give you the most peace of mind.
Fleet Insurance – Fleet insurance is perfect for business owners that have more than one vehicle that they need to insure. Fleet insurance is much easier to manage than having separate policies for each vehicle and will nearly always work out cheaper.
Breakdown Assistance – Breakdown assistance is essential, regardless of the type of vehicle you drive. If you don’t already have breakdown assistance then most insurance providers will be able to offer it to you at a very competitive rate.
Public Liability – Businesses are particular risk of liability claims but the truth is that anyone can find themselves facing a claim if a third party is injured or killed. This makes public liability insurance a very sensible option to have included in a policy.
Shop Insurance
Building Insurance – Whatever type of shop you run, you need to ensure that the building itself is protected. Risk such as fire and broken water pipes can cause untold damage that could potentially be devastating if you didn’t have insurance in place.
Stock Cover – Covering your stock is another essential component of shop insurance.
Employer’s Liability – If you employ staff, then you need to protect yourself against any potential claims with employer’s liability insurance.
Public Liability – Claims from the public are another big risk that comes with running a shop, so getting public liability insurance included in your policy is a must.
Landlord Insurance
Building Insurance – Landlord always have to think about the state of their buildings, which is why building insurance is so important. Not only this, but you’re legally obliged to have it when letting property.
Contents Cover – If you let property that’s furnished then having your contents covered is always a good idea.
Loss of Rent – If for whatever reason you’re unable to claim rent from a tenant for a period of time, then loss of rent will provide compensation until you’re able to resolve the matter.
Unoccupied Property Insurance – Unoccupied property is at high risk of theft, vandalism and squatting. Therefore insuring unoccupied property usually needs a special policy that will take these risk factors into account.
Public Liability – Public liability insurance is always important for landlords. It will provide protection for any claims, whether they come from your own tenants or members of public.
Great Ways to Save Money on Insurance
Look for Discounts Online
Secure Your Property/Vehicles
Consider Fleet Policies
Pay Annually
Get Multiple Quotes
Getting Quotes is Easy
Whatever type of insurance you need, getting quotes is easy. Simply go to the page for the type of insurance you want and click on the red button. After you’ve supplied some necessary information, you’ll then be sent quotes for you to compare. All you need to do then is pick the best one!
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
