Judges Lodging - Victorian museum - Presteigne Powys
Home
Visit us
Times & Prices  How to get here  Stapleton Castle 2017  For the Kids  Catering  Shop  Access  For Groups  Private Hire  Filming & Photography
Quick tour
The building  Courtroom  Dining room  Servants hall  Kitchen  Bathroom  Clerks room  Cells  Local history rooms
History
Community
The Great War
Learning
Education visits  Resources
Yn dysgu
Arweiniad  Adnoddau addysgol
Weddings
Recipes
Our area
Contact us
Join our mailing list
Links & things we like
We run the town's
so we can provide you with any information you would like about the area, other places to visit, accommodation and events.
The creation of this website was supported by Welsh Government.
Explore the fascinating world of the Victorian judges at this award-winning historic house.
Home
Step into the 1870s at the award-winning Judge's Lodging and discover the world of a most unusual household.
See our 2017 leaflet here
Explore the 'upstairs, downstairs' life of theVictorian Judges, their servants and felonious guests.
Once called ‘the most commodious and elegant apartments for a judge in all England and Wales' (Lord Chief Justice Campbell, 1855), decay beckoned Radnorshire's disused Shire Hall into obscurity. Now, aided by an interior hardly touched by time and original furnishings discarded in attics, extensive research and restoration has re-awakened this ‘Victorian fossil'.
From the stunningly restored judge's apartments to the dingy servants' quarters below you can explore their gaslit world. Damp cells remind you of the building's true purpose, along with the vast courtroom where your imagination in captured by the echoing trial of William Morgan, local duck thief.
Visitors to the building are accompanied by an eavesdropping audiotour of voices from the past; you will hear their tale, from Mary the hardworking maid, to Reverend Richard Lister Venables, Chairman of the Magistrates and employer of the famous diarist Francis Kilvert, portrayed by actor Robert Hardy.
You can hear excerpts from our fabulous character audiotour, including Robert Hardy, along with an interview with Historical Consultant, Dr Charles Kightly here  (this will open in the Media Player you use).
• Click here to take a quick tour of some of the fascinating rooms.
An historic house with a difference, our total ‘hands-on' policy allows you to actually sit in the judge's chair, study his books, even pump water in the kitchen (although we would rather you did not use the commodes!).
Site photography: Judge's Lodging staff, Phil Lane of Borderphoto, Alex Ramsay
News
New Board seeks to raise the bar!The Judge's Lodging in Presteigne has recruited a
Humbling Hudson's Heritage Awards secondPRESS RELEASE:  The Judge’s Lodging awarded Second Place
Forthcoming Events
01/03/17
to 22/12/17 Stapleton Castle Tours
01/03/17
to 31/07/17 Our Favourite Things
Strange But True
Lazy KeufsThese were special dog tongs used for removing badly behaved dogs from church during services.  There is still a pair in St Beuno's Church, Clynnog Fawr, North Wales
Historical Handy Hints
An insect trapScoop out the inside of a turnip, scallop
The right sort of bathThe tepid bath seems the best adapted to
Creaking hingesA bit of soap rubbed on the hinges
Recipes
Spinach with Cream & Eggs'Spinage' with Cream and Eggs
This being a pretty
Vanilla CreamIngredients - 1 pint of milk, the yolks
To Make Caraway BrandySteep an ounce of caraway-seeds and six ounces
The Judge's Lodging, Broad Street, Presteigne, Powys, Mid Wales LD8 2AD. Email: info@judgeslodging.org.uk
Telephone enquiries and bookings Tel. 01544 260650
Accredited Museum RD 1960 Administered by Presteigne Shire Hall Museum
Trust Ltd (Registered Charity 1062215). Supported by Powys County Council
Web site Designed & hosted by Orphans Press 01568 612460
