Kettle's Yard – University of Cambridge
Kettle’s Yard house and gallery are currently closed while we carry out a major building project to create a four-floor Education wing, improved exhibition galleries, a new entrance area and a café. But please come to our off site displays, events and concerts in Cambridge and beyond and find out other ways to stay involved while we are closed at Castle Street. For the latest news about events and the building project subscribe to our e-news list.
Andrew Nairne, Director
Kettle’s Yard House & Gallery
Currently closed while we carry out a major building project
+44 (0)1223 748 100
mail@kettlesyard.cam.ac.uk
Kettle’s Yard: Off site
Find out more about our offsite events and displays here
To hear regularly from us subscribe to our e-news
Kettle’s Yard: Looking Ahead
For more on our building project click here
For our latest news stories click here
University of Cambridge
Closed for building project
Menu
Visit
Kettle’s Yard Off Site
What’s On
Off Site Calendar
Off Site Exhibitions
Off Site Music
What’s on elsewhere
University of Cambridge Museums
Friends Events
Past Exhibitions
Past Music
Collection
The House
History
H S Jim Ede
House Virtual Tour
Collection Database
Permanent Collection
Collection on Tour
ReCollection: Oral History
Archive
Library
A Handful of Objects
Learn
Learn
Community
Young People/Circuit
Resources
Special Projects
Schools & colleges
Open House Artist Residency
Support Us
Support Us
Donations
What your donation can do
Ede Circle
Legacies
Current supporters
Friends of Kettle’s Yard
Corporate Support
Looking ahead
About
About
News
Kettle’s Yard Music
Volunteering
Development plans
Jobs & Employment
Staff
Annual Review
Contact
Press
University of Cambridge Museums
Shop
Search
Search
Kettle's Yard in New Places and Spaces
Celebrating 50 years as part of the University of Cambridge 1966-2016
Kettle's Yard house and gallery is currently closed while we work on our major building project to create a better Kettle's Yard for all.
You can view the development plans here.
Kettle's Yard Music
Listen to some of the world's best chamber musicians in the historic setting of the Old Divinity School.
Explore ReCollection
Kettle's Yard Oral History Archive
Anthea Hamilton Reimagines Kettle's Yard
At the Hepworth Wakefield
Noticeboard
20 February, 2017
Exhibitions
7 April – 31 March
Kettle’s Yard in New Places and Spaces
Find out more
News
23 January 2017
Folk-inspired Chamber Concerts
Find out more
Calendar
February 2017
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
12345
6789101112
13141516171819
20212223242526
2728
Receive e-news
See all events
News
15 February 2017
Topping out ceremony at the building site
Find out more
News
17 January 2017
Alfred Wallis Conservation
Find out more
Chamber Music
23 February, 8pm at the Old Divinity School
Ligeti Quartet
Find out more
Book now
For adults
7 March, 11am-4pm
Tate Exchange Symposium
Find out more
For young people
28 February, 5.30-7.30pm at Wysing Arts Centre
Circuit Art Social
Find out more
Exhibitions
23 January – 24 March, Monday-Friday 10am-6pm
Discovery Through Display
Find out more
Explore the site
Kettle’s Yard Off Site
Open House Artist Residency
A Handful of Objects
ReCollection: Oral History Archive
News
Collection Database
Stay Connected
Instagram feed
Twitter feed
Twitter: kettlesyardRT @katejnoble: Lovely to meet old friends from @kettlesyard reimagined @HepworthGallery looking forward to seeing them back home in Cambri… 07:20:06 PM February 17, 2017"...we find a perfect pebble once in a generation and once in a continent perhaps." - Jim Ede. Read more: https://t.co/ha3h78hzxX 03:17:42 PM February 17, 2017Our concerts return next Thurs with the exciting and innovative @LigetiQuartet - #Bartók #Diabaté #LouHarrison.… https://t.co/KQ0Lkuhrj2 01:55:41 PM February 16, 2017RT @CambNetwork: Topping out of @KettlesYard gallery in Cambridge https://t.co/T7FAdOoxnt via @CambridgeNews 10:08:09 AM February 16, 2017RT @CamUnivMuseums: Light and Hepworth, courtesy of @kettlesyard in residence @FitzMuseum_UK #CamTwilight https://t.co/DDqvLTrBmL 10:07:41 AM February 16, 2017
Facebook activity
Kettle's Yard 3 days ago ‘I will discard 10,000 in my search for one whose outward shape exactly balances my idea of what a pebble is … you may search a wide seashore or the reaches of many rivers and never find one, and then suddenly it lies before you – an ordered unit, shaped of this order from the countless vicissitudes of nature’s course… We find a perfect pebble once in a generation and once in a continent perhaps.’Jim EdeOur #workoftheweek is Jim Ede's 'basket of pebbles'. Read more about this work and Jim Ede's ethos below. You can see this piece and many others from the Kettle's Yard collection at ART at the ARB in our 'Discovery Through Display' exhibition.Acknowledging the significance of pebbles for Jim Ede and Kettle’s Yard, one has been put in the time capsule we placed on site during our Topping Out Ceremony. Read more about the time capsule and the event here: www.kettlesyard.co.uk/about/news/topping-ceremony-building-site/ ... See MoreSee LessWork of the Week: Basket of pebbles – Kettle's Yardkettlesyard.co.uk
‘I will discard 10,000 in my search for one whose outward shape exactly balances my idea of what a pebble is … you may search a wide seashore or the reaches of many rivers and never find one, an... View on Facebook·ShareKettle's Yard 3 days ago "Some people have more gifts than seems quite fair. Israeli pianist Boris Giltburg is one." - The Telegraph on Boris GiltburgOnly two concerts left in our Spring Term series - the Ligeti Quartet
on the 23 February and Boris Giltburg, piano on 2 March. Further information and tickets here: www.kettlesyard.co.uk/music ... See MoreSee LessPhotoView on Facebook·ShareKettle's Yard 5 days ago A last minute reminder that we will be at The Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge from 4.30-7.30pm this evening presenting 'An Adventure with Art' - a free event for families, as part of Twilight at the Museums. Wrap up warm and come out to explore the galleries, make your own piece of art or seek out special performances and activities. (There will also be an outdoor hot chocolate stall!)More information: www.museums.cam.ac.uk/whats-on/twilight-at-the-museums ... See MoreSee LessTwilight at the MuseumsFebruary 15, 2017, 4:30pm - February 15, 2017, 7:30pmReady for a FREE evening of family adventure and discovery in Cambridge?
Wrap up warm, grab a torch and prepare for some half-term fun as museums and collections from across the city and beyond open ...View on Facebook·ShareKettle's Yard 5 days ago Last Thursday we celebrated a major milestone in Kettle's Yard's transformation, as our new building reached its highest point.Thank you to the contractors, SDC, for hosting the Topping Out Ceremony, and to our guests for joining us to celebrate the occasion. A special mention to Dominika Grzeskowik, a student from North Cambridge Academy, who made a small sculpture of a piano in response to her memories of the grand piano in the House at Kettle’s Yard. This sculpture is now part of a time capsule that Dominika placed inside the wall of the new building at the ceremony.For photos and more information on the time capsule and the event, please see our website: www.kettlesyard.co.uk/about/news/topping-ceremony-building-site/ ... See MoreSee LessTopping out ceremony at the building site – Kettle's Yardkettlesyard.co.ukProgress on the Kettle’s Yard extension was celebrated on Thursday 9 February, as the building reached its highest point. The contractors, SDC, hosted a topping… View on Facebook·ShareKettle's Yard 6 days ago "Ede believed “the role of art is to give food for thought, to act as a stimulant, to entice the onlooker to inspect things, people, emotions, from a new point of view." Placed within an academic context, exhibitions such as ‘Discovery Through Display’ can only complement the exchange of ideas and perspectives constantly taking place within the building’s many seminar rooms."Thank you to Lily Spicer and Varsity for a wonderful review of
'Discovery Through Display'. You can see the exhibition for yourself at the Alison Richard Building until 24 March. ... See MoreSee LessReview: Discovery Through Displayvarsity.co.ukLily Spicer reviews Kettle’s Yard’s ‘Discovery Through Display’ exhibition, curated by Fitzwilliam student Josephine Waugh 5 stars View on Facebook·ShareView on Facebook
Kettle’s Yard
The house & gallery are currently closed while
we carry out a major
building project
Find out more
+44 (0)1223 748 100
mail@kettlesyard.cam.ac.uk
Kettle’s Yard: Off site
Find out about our off site
events & displays here
Other Resources
Jobs and employment
Take a virtual tour
Read our cookie policy
Stay Connected
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
Vimeo
YouTube
RSS
Receive our newsletter
Email address
Kettle’s Yard is a department of the University of Cambridge. © 2014 Kettle’s Yard.
Design by A Practice for Everyday Life. Build by Benedict de Silva.
