Leeds Jazz
Leeds Jazz
What's Here
Beginnings
The End
Concerts
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
Players
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Bands
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Venues
Links
Credits
Plugins
Leeds Jazz: The Beginning
Jazz To The People!
It was Spring 1984 (exact date lost) when the first meeting of what was to
become Leeds Jazz took place in a downstairs bar at the Adelphi on Hunslet
Road. There had of course been mutterings of dissatisfaction for some time
from people unhappy with continually having to drive/train/bus to
neighbouring (and not so neighbouring) cities to see live jazz. But
sometime that year came the realisation that if *we* did not do something
about it, probably nobody else would.
Those were the days of a thriving alternative scene --- Leeds Other Paper,
the Leeds Trades Club (newly bought and renovated with money from the sale
of the old Trades Council premises in the city centre in Upper Fountain
Street), Red Ladder Theatre Company (one of its then actors, Richard
Honey, currently designs the Leeds Jazz programme leaflet), myriad
alternative political and grass-roots community and cultural groups ---
and it suddenly seemed a short step to the formation of 'Leeds Jazz
Promotions' as it was first dreamed up. Who remembers that first meeting?
No minutes seem to have survived. I remember sending out the letter
calling the meeting, having got what legitimacy and confidence I could
from talking to Pam Bone (at that time agent and publicist for Red Ladder,
with connections to Yorkshire Arts) and Geoff Amos (ever energetic fixer
and enabler of the Northern jazz scene) --- 'yes, do it', they said.
I remember of course Bill White being there --- it was his suggestion to
abbreviate 'Leeds Jazz Promotions' to 'Leeds Jazz' (a name style now
become almost standard in other towns and cities), and he went on in later
years to transform the group from one based organisationally, at first, on
trade union and fringe political practices (those weekly planning
meetings, with detailed spreadsheets of jobs to be done!) to an effective
organisation with staying power. And there were other people, important
for the early survival of the group, such as Kathy and John Dyson (and
their dog Dylan). Musicians formed a big element in those first
beginnings.
Bill had also invited his brother-in-law Mike Short
(indispensible over the years), and Steve Crocker, whose experience in
Sheffield was thought to be useful to us blundering amateurs (neither
could get to the first meeting, it turned out, and nor could Geoff). And
there were quietly supportive people like Steve Walters, soon to return
with little more than his saxophone to Scotland (his friend and
clarinetist Brendan Duffy made later meetings).
Other meetings followed --- many meetings --- which gradually saw
the assembly of most of the characters who make up the current old guard
(the Leeds Jazz 'grey groovers' as someone recently described them) ---
the (almost) indefatigable Pete Robinson and Dave Hatfield, and John
Smith (only recently moved away). And Denis Dalby of course, then famous
for the best fish and chip shop in Leeds, on St. Michaels Lane. Other
notable appearances at those early meetings included some pithy
interventions by Matthew (Xero Slingsby), who (probably quite rightly)
complained we did not support local talent enough. But we could not do
everything, and our job, we decided, was to bring the best we could of
international level jazz and improvised music to Leeds.
And we did organise --- and how exciting those early gigs were --- a
program of concerts. The first, in October, was by a relatively unknown
but very exciting young black violinist, Billy Bang, destined for greater
things, accompanied by legendary sixties avant-guardist Frank Lowe. And we
got an audience! I remember having to make every gig pay (although I think
Geoff got us a small subsidy), and this applied to even relatively
cutting-edge gigs such as this. Without the support of the old Trades Club
on Savile Mount in Chapeltown, and the route to our local audience through
Leeds Other Paper, it would have been much harder. As it was we had the
use of the large upstairs (murder for lugging equipment) 'Concert Room'
--- the decor of which was hard to describe, but unforgettable! --- for
almost nothing. We weren't directly relevant to the labour movement aims
of the club, but secretary Beryl Huffinley and the ordinary users seemed
to recognise plucky underdogs deserving a helping hand, and that was our
main home for quite a long time. And what famous figures we stuck up on
that proscenium arched stage, humped sound and lighting equipment for, and
toured the streets for in the early hours pasting up posters on walls and
junction boxes! Early highlights for me, apart from Billy Bang, were
Memphis Slim (audience of around 500, this time at the university Riley
Smith Hall), and the Guest Stars (in the days when children were admitted
to the trades club), an appropriately crowded and festive Leeds Jazz
Christmas party (a tradition still going), with balloons too. In the
depths of January 1985, Dudu Pukwana and Zila struggled up the motorway
from London in an old van, arrived late, and played a great concert full
of the joy of life, to another packed Trades Club. And Barbara Thompson,
packed out, best remembered by old Leeds Jazz hands for an end of evening
wrangle over missing record stall money --- the full story only for
telling in private (and often is!).
Looking at those old posters on the Leeds Jazz archive website reminds me
how much we did ourselves then. Steve Crocker got the first
massive-seeming programme poster done for us in Sheffield, but mainly we
did our own, with Letraset and scissors and Cow Gum. The Phil Guy poster
reminds me of another very popular gig, we could never get enough blues it
seemed. But --- as I look down the famous names from the end of that first
hectic year --- one name stands out! ARCHIE SHEPP. We could hardly believe
he was coming. There must be a catch. And when it got to ten o'clock on
the night of a scheduled 8pm concert, with a surprisingly patient, but
growingly restless capacity audience of 420 upstairs at the Trades Club,
and no Archie Shepp, I began to contemplate a disaster beyond all
disasters ... The atmosphere was electric as he finally walked in with his
band, a living legend, and the gig was great. But over all too soon, with
the bar closing, and no encore. I think the audience clapped and shouted
and stomped for maybe twenty minutes, while a black South African
ex-patriot saxophonist called Skaki, living locally, went backstage to
remonstrate with the great man. And --- a bizarre end to a bizarre evening
--- they came back to play that encore, a double encore, with maybe half
the audience already given up and left. Maybe that night consolidated the
process of personal escape from a job that had become too exciting by
half. By the beginning of September 1985, when the new season started, I
was the other side of the Atlantic, living and working in Chicago for a
year, and envying from afar the lucky Leeds audiences for Steve Lacy, the
Vienna Art Orchestra, the famous Anthony Braxton Quintet UK tour, and
other visitors to Leeds unimaginable eighteen months before.
Denis presented me with one of his gig photos, nicely framed, before I
left. I still have it proudly on my wall at home --- Archie Shepp in all
too real close-up ...
Barry Cooper
June 6, 2002
Leeds Jazz Archive
Leeds Jazz | © 2014 | Privacy Statement | Disclaimer | Page Owner: webmaster@leedsjazz.org.uk
