Welcome
Manchester
High School For Girls
MHSG Home
welcome
catalogue
database
photographs
young
historians' scheme
search
Welcome
Manchester High School for Girls was founded in 1874 "to provide for Manchester's daughters what has been provided without stint for Manchester's sons. "
The Manchester High School archive contains records of all kinds dating from the foundation of the school to the present day. In 2002, the Heritage Lottery Fund awarded a grant to the archive to help to conserve and promote the country's heritage in the field of girls' education. This website is one of the ways in which these aims will be achieved.
Enquiries and requests to visit the archive should be directed to:
Dr. Christine A. Joy, School Archivist,
Manchester High School for Girls, Grangethorpe Rd., Rusholme, Manchester, M14  6HS
Email:  cjoy@mhsg.manchester.sch.uk
Terms and Conditions
All rights in the Manchester High School for Girls archive website and its contents, including copyright and database right, are owned by Manchester High School for Girls or otherwise used by Manchester High School for Girls as permitted by applicable law. In accessing the Manchester High School for Girls website pages, you agree that you will access the contents solely for your own private use and not for any commercial or public use. You can download and use the service on a single CPU at a time and you can print out a single hard copy of any part of the content on the Manchester High School for Girls archive website for your personal use.
Except as permitted above, you undertake not to copy, store in any medium [including in any other website], distribute, re-transmit, broadcast, modify or show in public any part of the Manchester High School for Girls archive website without the prior written permission of the headmistress of Manchester High School for Girls and in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, 1988.
If required, Manchester High School for Girls reserves the right to apply a nominal charge for photocophying quoted on request.
These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of England and Wales. Disputes arising from here shall be  exclusively subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.
designed
and created by mlsMEDIA
