The Network
Annual reports
Events
Network Newsletters
Ebulletins
Suppliers
Who we are
Joining
Contact
Welcome to The Network
The Network supports libraries, museums, archives, galleries and other cultural and heritage organisations (as well as individuals) who are working to tackle social exclusion and towards social justice.
My Library By Right
New campaign from CILIP.
"My Library By Right brings people together to campaign for:
The public’s rights to libraries to be recognised and respected
Public libraries to be treated as the statutory services they are
The Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) to carry out their legal duties under the 1964 Public Libraries and Museums Act
Statutory guidance for local authorities on their duties under the 1964 Public Libraries and Museums Act from DCMS, with support from CILIP and the library and information profession."
Jodi Awards for accessible digital culture 2017 - call for applications
Deadline
extended to Friday 10 February 2017
The
Jodi Awards recognise the best use of digital technology in widening access to
collections, learning and creativity for disabled people in museums, galleries,
heritage sites, libraries and archives. For over ten years, the Jodi Awards
have been celebrating organisations which push the boundaries of possibility
for digital media in increasing access for all.
For
2017, we welcome nominations from organisations of all sizes, from any country,
for low-tech and hi-tech projects and for small or large audiences. What
matters is the quality of your project.
Previous
winners include British Museum, VocalEyes, National Trust, MShed Bristol, Tate,
Canadian Museum for Human Rights, Edinburgh City Libraries, Finnish Association
for the Deaf, Imperial War Museum Duxford, Roaring Girl Productions, Berlin für
Blinde, Association Valentin Hauy, and Karlovy Vary Library.
Nominations
for the 2017 Jodi Awards are now invited. Judges
will be looking for projects, services or facilities which demonstrate
exemplary qualities, real effort and achievement, and have the power to inspire
change. The Judges will assess the following aspects:
Organisational
commitment to disability equality
Involvement of
disabled people in the planning, designing, creating and testing of products or
services
Adherence to
inclusive design principles
Outcomes,
including the quality of finished products or services, key benefits and
user endorsements
Level of in-built
sustainability and/or growth
Inspirational
value and potential impact
Nominations
need to be sent to applications@jodiawards.org.uk
If
you are planning to apply for an Award, and want some advice, we are happy to
help you, please contact info@jodiawards.org.uk.
For
more information and to download an application form, please visit our website here.
Blogs you might be interested in
Leon's Library Blog - the blog is up-and-running again!LGBT people and the UK cultural sector - this blog builds on the content of the book, LGBT people and the UK cultural sector, and aims to add new developments and missing stories of LGBTQ people in the cultural sector.Museums and Autism - "A blog about how museums can improve support for autistic spectrum visitors, with practical advice and examples from museums and autistic people"Race Matters, the Runnymede Trust blog
Speak Out London – Diversity Citythe LGBTQ Oral History project based at London Metropolitan Archives
Travelling Librarian 2015 - a blog of Frances Tout's study tour of community engagement projects in
US public librariesViMLoC - Visible Minority Librarians of Canada Network
Resource categories
Black, ethnic minority and mixed-race people
9 articles
Includes background resources and examples of work with BME (Black and minority ethnic) people.
Carers
4 articles
Includes information about the needs of the UK's estimated 6.1m carers, and how the cultural sector is working to meet these.
Children & young people
51 articles
Resources to support work with children & young people (and their parents and carers).
More in this section:
Looked-after children & young people and the cultural sector, 																						Looked-after children & young people - background information, 																						NEETs
Class
1 articles
Resources reflecting the impact of social class on life in the UK, and work to recognise and rectify this.
Digital inclusion
7 articles
Resources supporting work to overcome the four main barriers to people being able to go online: access, skills, motivation, and trust.
Disability
35 articles
Resources about different disabilities, and the role that the cultural sector is playing to help overcome barriers.
More in this section:
Autism, 																						Disability – general issues, 																						Hearing impairment, 																						Learning disabilities, 																						Visual impairment
Domestic abuse
1 articles
Domestic abuse (and domestic violence) is a major issue in the UK, and this Category highlights some of the positive work being carried out by the cultural sector.
Good practice
25 articles
Examples of good working practice in the cultural sector.
More in this section:
Advocacy, 																						CILIP Libraries Change Lives Award, 																						Impact, 																						Monitoring & evaluation, 																						Promotion & marketing, 																						Stategic planning
Health & Wellbeing
60 articles
More in this section:
Bibliotherapy/Books on Prescription, 																						Dementia, 																						Food, healthy eating, etc, 																						Mental Health
Homeless people
3 articles
Includes resources to support homeless people.
LGBTQIA people
35 articles
Includes resources about – and the cultural sector’s response to – people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer/questioning,
intersex, or asexual.
Learning
8 articles
Includes resources about the ways in which the cultural sector can respond to the changing learning ‘landscape’.
More in this section:
Basic Skills/Skills for Life/Literacy/Emergent Readers, 																						ESOL, 																						Family learning, 																						Learning – the 5th National Offer for Libraries
Migration
33 articles
Includes resources about and for new arrivals, including refugees, asylum-seekers, and migrant workers.
More in this section:
Community languages, 																						Migration: "Welcome To Your Library" (and museums, archives, galleries and other cultural and heritage organisations)
Older people
21 articles
Highlights initiatives by the cultural sector to work with and support older people.
More in this section:
Intergenerational work , 																						"Library services for older people: good practice guide"
Poverty & low income/Unemployment/Recession/Foodbanks
4 articles
Includes resources that showcase and support  work by the cultural sector to support people hit hard by the recession.
Prisoners and their families
12 articles
Includes resources to support reading, literacy, learning and other initiatives with prisoners and their families.
More in this section:
Young offenders
Social policy
45 articles
Resources on social policy, particularly as it affects the cultural sector.
More in this section:
Equality & Human Rights, 																						Diversity, 																						Social exclusion and inclusion, 																						"Open to all?", 																						Social justice , 																						Community cohesion, 																						Political correctness
The Network
6 articles
Includes news and information about our own work, plus responses to consultations.
Travellers, Gypsies, Roma people
5 articles
Includes resources about work by the cultural sector with Travellers, Gypsies, and Roma people.
Working with communities
23 articles
Includes resources on some of the methods used to engage with communities.
More in this section:
Building partnerships , 																						Community engagement, 																						Community profiling, 																						Volunteering , 																						Outreach/Housebound & community services
Home
Who we are
Contact
Subscribe to the Network RSS feed
Copyright 2014 - The Network
Website by Electric Putty
