Yorkshire Air Museum - The Largest Independent Air Museum in the UK
Yorkshire Air Museum
Home
Plan Your Visit
Exhibits
About
Vacancies
Film and TV Production
Support The Memorial
Collections Department and Research Library
The Allied Air Forces Memorial
Fire and Rescue Service
French Squadrons in Elvington During WWII
Calendar
Shop
Venue Hire
Blog
Journal
Contact
Schools and Educational Visits
“We thoroughly enjoyed our visit to the Air Museum. The workshops and exhibits you have were ideal for our needs”. Brompton & Sawdon Primary School, years 5 & 6, Sept 2016. “Thank you for helping to organise our school visit [..]The children and staff learnt so much during our day and gained much from our… …..
Family Holidays at The Air Museum
School Holidays can be a challenging time for parents. Keeping everyone occupied throughout any school holiday can be frustrating and finding a single attraction that everyone will enjoy can be difficult. Many families are surprised to find that everyone enjoys a visit to the Museum. School Holiday times are always the busiest period at the… …..
News
The Museum blog is updated regularly, as well as guest articles by some of the interesting people we meet. Not just our latest news, here you will find articles about our exhibits, the history of the air museum and some of the amazing people who served in conflicts in aviation history.
Becoming a Volunteer
One of the things that visitors to the Museum often comment on is the friendliness and professionalism of our team of volunteer stewards and guides. We also hear that visitors may like to become more involved and perhaps join our team, but sometimes may worry that they lack the required skills to be a guide… …..
Shop
Our Shop offers a selection of carefully chosen gifts for aviation enthusiasts. From amazing publications such as the Ferry Pilots Notes, to aircraft sponsorship options which allow you to support the museum’s aircraft and enjoy personal tours of your chosen aircraft, there will be something in our store for everyone. Our payment interface is PayPal.… …..
The Allied Air Forces Memorial
In addition to our role as an aviation museum, the Yorkshire Air Museum is also the Allied Air Forces Memorial. In fact the Memorial aspect was the fundamental reason for the founding of the Museum back in the early 1980’s. The Memorial recognises and commemorates the achievements and sacrifice of allied airmen and women in… …..
Plan Your Visit
The Yorkshire Air Museum sits on the site of former RAF Elvington in North Yorkshire, a World War Two airfield used extensively by Allied bomber crews … Read More
NAAFI Style Restaurant
The Museum NAAFI lies at the heart of our operations in many ways. Located centrally on our historic aerodrome layout, alongside the Control Tower, … Read More
Shop
Our Shop offers a selection of carefully chosen gifts for aviation enthusiasts. From amazing publications such as the Ferry Pilots Notes, to aircraft … Read More
Welcome to The Yorkshire Air Museum
Established in the grounds of the former RAF Elvington, the Yorkshire Air Museum is the UK's largest independent air museum and home to the Allied Air Forces Memorial
Plan Your Visit
Exhibits
Our huge range of exhibits and collections span the entire history of flight, from the early pioneers of aviation, through both world wars and on … Read More
The Allied Air Forces Memorial
In addition to our role as an aviation museum, the Yorkshire Air Museum is also the Allied Air Forces Memorial. In fact the Memorial aspect was
the … Read More
Against The Odds
This original wartime building contains the definite Bomber Command exhibition which explains in a dramatic and factual way the history, reasons and … Read More
Schools and Education Visitors
“We thoroughly enjoyed our visit to the Air Museum. The workshops and exhibits you have were ideal for our needs”. Brompton & Sawdon Primary … Read More
Support The Museum
Your support is fundamental to help us maintain the heritage of our historical site, care for our precious Collections and keep the memories of war … Read More
Venue Hire
Set against a unique backdrop of historic aircraft and buildings, The Yorkshire Air Museum is located close to the City of York, next to the Elvington … Read More
Pre World War Two Aircraft
Our constantly growing collection of Pre World War Two Aircraft is complemented by our new Pioneers of Aviation exhibition in 2010. Below is the … Read More
World War Two Aircraft
Our World War Two Aircraft collection is probably best know for our Handley Page Halifax "Friday The 13th". But our collection extends beyond this … Read More
Post World War Two Aircraft
Alongside the collection of Cold War Aircraft, we have a collection of both civilian and military aircraft from the period after the Second World War. … Read More
Follow and Connect With Us

The Allied Air Forces Memorial and Yorkshire Air Museum is a registered charity (No. 516766)
It receives no continuous state or local government aid and is a not-for-profit business.
Find us on Trip Advisor
Support the Museum
Mosquito T Shirt
£20.99
Halifax Bomber T Shirt
£20.99
Thunder Day Admission
£1.00–£30.00
Useful Information
My Account
Basket
Checkout
Cookie Policy
Website Terms and Conditions
Online Store Terms and Conditions
Copyright © 2017 Built with love by The Octane Factory
This site uses cookiesNo problemMore info
