Reading | RNIB | Supporting people with sight loss
0
Skip to content
Skip to search
RNIB | Supporting people with sight loss
OpenMenu
Search
Donate
Search this site
RNIB Home
RNIB helpline
0303 123 9999
helpline@rnib.org.uk
RNIB Connect Radio
Talking Books
RNIB Connect Magazine
Lottery
Shop
RNIB helpline
0303 123 9999
helpline@rnib.org.uk
Information for you
Who we are
Our services
Practical help
Eye health
Campaigning
Donations and Fundraising
Volunteering
For professionals
Close Menu
You are here:HomePractical helpReading
Reading
Show this sectionWhat to read
Audio
Large and giant print
eBooks and digital
eBook reader reviews
eBook app reviews
Braille and Moon: tactile codes
If you're blind or partially sighted, there are lots of different ways to continue reading. You can keep reading books, newspapers and magazines, websites and bills and other paperwork in a way that suits you, and there are lots of options for children's reading. Popular ways to read are listening to audio, reading large or giant print, braille or opening up the world of eBooks. You can buy and borrow books, newspapers and magazines from many organisations and shops, and of course from our online shop.Improving lighting can also help make the most of any sight you may have.
Reading and learning productsWhether you're reading for pleasure or studying, there's something for you in our range of audiobooks, DAISY players and accessible learning resources. Shop reading and learning products
Lighting solutionsMake the most of your sight and increase the light in your home with daylight bulbs and magnifier lights. Discover what a huge difference extra or improved lighting can make to your everyday life.  Shop lighting solutions
Reading choices from RNIB
We make it possible for you to get access to books, newspapers and magazines in the format you prefer, whether that’s braille, audio, large print or digital. You can borrow from our library service – the largest of its kind in the UK – or buy from our online shop. RNIB reading choices
Research
We're a leading source of information on sight loss and the issues affecting blind and partially sighted people. Access our latest research.
In your country
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales / Cymru
Social
Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google+.
Footer utility menu
Privacy policy
Copyright
Cookies
Terms and conditions
Accessibility
FAQs
Jobs
Safeguarding
Sitemap
© 2016 Royal National Institute of Blind PeopleRegistered Charity Number 226227 (England and Wales) and SC039316 (Scotland)105 Judd Street, London WC1H 9NE
