Breckenbrough | Residential School for Boys with Special Needs
Home
Life at Breckenbrough
Pupils & Parents
Essential Information
Search for:
The school where individuality flourishes
Start your journey
Life at Breckenbrough
Please click here to learn about life at Breckenbrough and how our students develop and progress in school and beyond. Also details of news and events, fundraising and a tour of Breckenbrough.
Find out more
Pupils & Parents
Please click here for information about the school timetable including academic and social curriculum, subjects, boarding details and support provision offered. Also information on trips and visits and pupil support in and out of school.
Find out more
Essential Information
Please click her for information on policies; practice and processes; school governance; external agencies and guidance including NMS and Ofsted.
Also details about schools admissions, our local offer and how to contact us.
Find out more
What makes us special?
We are a ‘special’ school in so many different ways; we pride ourselves on providing a nurturing and supportive environment for all our boys to further develop their intellect and behaviour. We have a philosophy of peaceful and constructive conflict resolution to create respect, understanding, tolerance and forgiveness throughout our community.
Find out more
Latest News and Events from Breckenbrough School
We collect Sainsburys Activekids Vouchers
If you have any vouchers you would like to donate to Breckenbrough we have a collection box at the reception desk Thank you!
Continue Reading
Ski Trip 2017
Years 10, 11 and 6th form Ski trip to Italy Breckenbrough School have been offering ski trips to students for over 20 years. We partner with Interski  as we have found they offer a fantastic package, have a great reputation and many years of experience in working with school groups including SEN. The package they […]
Continue Reading
2017/18 Term Dates
Please find a PDF of our term dates for the 2017/18 academic year here: Term Dates 2017/2018
Continue Reading
Reverse Advent Calendar
For Christmas 2016, we decided to do something a little different around school and we introduced the idea of a Reverse Advent Calendar. Each day throughout December we added an item to the boxes set up around school. Before we broke up for the Christmas Holidays we donated the items to the foodbank in Thirsk. […]
Continue Reading
"The school is highly effective in promoting the health of residential students. As well as liaising with external health professionals, the school has an in-house psychologist. This is of enormous benefit to the emotional wellbeing of residential students. Staff have developed exceptionally detailed care plans which are fully shared with residential students. Plans are clear, regularly monitored, and set realistic targets for achievement. This ensures that residential students make outstanding progress in all areas of their lives."
Ofsted Inspection report for Residential Special School January 2016
Please call Diane to find out more: 01845 587238
Leadership team
Geoff Brookes – Headmaster – BEd
Simon Bannister – Deputy Head – BEd BA (Hons) PGCE Dip (SEN)
Stuart Edwards – Head of Social Education and Designated Safeguarding Lead – DipHE
Sue Jones – Bursar
Be part of our children’s future. Every donation makes a significant difference to Breckenbrough.
Please donate
Breckenbrough School,
Sandhutton, nr Thirsk,
North Yorkshire YO7 4EN
Telephone: 01845 587238
Email: office@breckenbrough.org.uk
© Breckenbrough School 2017 | Sitemap
Website by bowhouse.co.uk | Photographs lovingly taken by Karen Turner
Company Registration No: 6223076
|
D for E No: 815-7002
|
Charity Commission No: 1122269
HomeLife at BreckenbroughPupils & ParentsEssential Information
