Campaign for Real Education
Home
About us
Contact us
Support us
Issues and policy
Choice
Standards
Philosophies
Primary
Secondary
Subjects
Newsletters
Further reading
Links
Archive
The Campaign for Real Education was
formed in 1987 to press for higher standards and more parental choice in
state education. It is not affiliated to any political party and is
funded entirely by voluntary donations.
Formed in 1987 by 14 parents and teachers, all of whom were concerned about falling standards and damaging changes in state education which were being forced through without any evidence to support them. Since then, the Campaign has been contacted by thousands of parents, teachers and academics with similar concerns. We now have a nationwide network of supporters and important links with like-minded people in other countries.
Latest:
Newsletter Winter 2017
The latest edition of the newsletter is available to download here
The Campaign for Real Social Science: Restoring Science to the Social Sciences
The CRE is delighted to publish this pamphlet by Dr Bruce Oliver Newsome, Assistant Teaching Professor in International Relations at the University of California, Berkeley.
The PDF is available to view here. here
Whole Class Teaching
The CRE is pleased to publish Whole Class Teaching, a pamphlet by Irina Tyk, Head of Holland House School. If you would like to order a complimentary copy, please e-mail or write to Priya Dutta (contact details below). The PDF is available to view here.
Donations:
The CRE is, and always has been, a voluntary organisation, totally independent in nature and free from any political affiliations.
The work of the CRE is as important today as it was when it was founded in 1987. Set up by Nick Seaton and his colleagues, they worked indefatigably to highlight and campaign against worrying trends in British education. Sadly, Nick passed away in 2012. We wish to continue to honour Nick's hard work.
We do, of course, incur certain costs such as the maintenance of this website. We are entirely dependent upon donations from our supporters. Any contribution you may wish to make, no matter how big or small, will be very gratefully received. Your contributions enable us to fight to bring common sense back into education.
Please download our 'Support us' pdf form,
from here, to make a contribution.
Many thanks
The CRE Executive Committee
Mailing list:
Please subscribe to our mailing list to receive our electronic newsletters.
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Chairman: Chris McGovern.  Tel: 01435 830109 or 07757
715145.  Email: mcgovernchris@hotmail.com
Vice Chairmen: Jennifer Chew OBE, Jacqui Davies, Katie
Ivens
Treasurer: Dr WAD Freeman, Ashgate, Halland, East Sussex, BN8 6PW.  Tel: 01825 840831.  Email: anthony831freeman@gmail.com
Secretary: Priya Dutta, 73 Albert Road, London N22 7AG.  Tel: 07701 088720.  Email: priyadutta@hotmail.com
