Rethinking Childhood | Website for Tim Gill: researcher, writer, consultant
Rethinking Childhood
Website for Tim Gill: researcher, writer, consultant
Skip to content
HomeAbout TimNo FearWritingMediaConsultancyWritten reportsOther projectsTestimonials & recommendationsTalksContact
← Older posts
How street play can help save cities from the car
Posted on January 25, 2017 | 2 comments
I am pleased to share a revealing, insightful and inspiring story from my home city. Clare Rogers wanted to make her streets safer for her kids. This goal led her first to organising Playing Out sessions in her own street in North London, then to becoming an advocate for walking, cycling and more child-friendly neighbourhoods.
Clare’s enthusiasm for play street sessions, with their potential to offer a more attractive vision of what residential streets can offer, fits with my own research into the power of the model. But it is her messages for campaigners that resonate most strongly.
Car dominance is a real problem for city-dwellers everywhere, and especially for urban children. But it will not be solved by pitting motorists against cyclists.  Instead, we need to shift the focus to building a shared vision for urban neighbourhoods and cities as a whole.
Talking about children helps make this shift. Enrique Peñalosa – recently re-elected mayor of Bogotá – is famous for his maxim (which Clare also highlights) that children are an indicator species for children: if they work for kids, they work for everyone. The converse is also true: cities that do not work for children are not working for anyone.
Continue reading →
2 Comments
Posted in Child-friendliness, Urbanism
Tagged child-friendly cities, cycling, Enrique Penalosa, London, playing out, pollution, street play, walking
What’s so bad about a father trying to make the world a more play-friendly place?
Posted on October 21, 2016 | 13 comments
This weekend’s New York Times has a major feature and profile on Mike Lanza and his Playborhood campaign to make neighbourhoods more play-friendly. And it’s whipping up a storm. In this piece, I give my take on the campaign and my response to the key criticisms.
First, some background. Lanza’s rallying cry is “turn your neighborhood into a place for play” – a goal he has been pursuing for at least nine years. His book and blog are first and foremost a set of practical advice, ideas and case studies for achieving that goal.
Lanza first got into the issue because of his concerns as a dad bringing up three children. What drives him is, in large part, the contrast between his own typically free-range 70s childhood and the highly constrained lives of most children today. I share his view that this change marks a profound loss.
Lanza’s campaign is aimed squarely at parents. He has three big messages for them: you should care about your kids’ play and everyday freedoms, you can and should take steps to expand them, and you should start with your own home and neighbourhood. The youtube video below introduces Lanza and his Playborhood idea.
Continue reading →
13 Comments
Posted in Child-friendliness, Outdoor play, Parenting
Tagged child-friendly cities, gender, Mike Lanza, neighbourhood, parenting, playborhood, poverty, Risk, USA
Playground surfacing (again), cycle helmets and public risk: there are no simple answers
Posted on October 3, 2016 | 2 comments
It is with an inward sigh that I share the news that once again, the US Standards body ASTM is considering a proposal to adopt stricter requirements for playground surfacing.
As regular readers will know, I have spoken out against this proposal several times. I was relieved to see its rejection last year, and can see no good reason for it to return. I urge anyone with influence within ASTM to take appropriate action (ballot no. F08 (16-06) for ASTM subcommittee F08.63 and main committee F08).
My long-time collaborator Bernard Spiegal posted a succinct piece last week on the topic. The Guardian editorial on cycle helmets he quotes makes a crucial point: there are rarely simple answers to questions about public risk. We have to talk about values, and we have to accept that humans are complex, contradictory creatures.
As Spiegal points out, risk benefit assessment is a tool that, while simple in form, recognises the complexity of judgements about risk. It is explicit about the need for clarity and consensus about values.
Embed from Getty Images
By the way, if you are interested in cycle helmets – and cycling – you may like to download a report on cycling and children and young people I wrote for the National Children’s Bureau in 2005. It includes a discussion of cycle helmet safety in which I tried to do justice to the complexity of this emotive issue.
2 Comments
Posted in Public policy, Risk
Tagged ASTM, Bernard Spiegal, cycling, playground safety, public policy, Risk, risk benefit assessment
A small but potentially significant win for risk benefit assessment
Posted on August 18, 2016 | 3 comments
How often do you hear that the ‘health and safety culture’ cannot be resisted? That fear of litigation makes people unwilling to accept the slightest possibility of accidents or injuries? The implication is that risk benefit assessment (RBA) – the balanced approach to risk management that I and others have developed – is a waste of time.
My response – that RBA is making a difference, and that the legal benchmark is to be reasonable, not to eliminate all risk – is sometimes met with scepticism or cynicism. “That may be true in theory,” the argument goes. “But in practice, as soon as a child is hurt and a claim comes in, the lawyers and the insurers just pay out, no matter what the merits of the case.”
This is why I am pleased to share the news that the charity Hackney Play Association has successfully fought off a claim after a playground accident, and that RBA was crucial to the outcome. The details were released yesterday on the Play Safety Forum (PSF) website – see below.
An adventure playground in Hackney
Continue reading →
3 Comments
Posted in Risk
Tagged Adventure playground, Hackney, legal cases, outdoor play, play, playwork, Risk, risk benefit assessment
Making the case for more playful and child-friendly places
Posted on August 2, 2016 | 11 comments
It is obvious that children’s play experiences and everyday freedoms are hugely shaped by the places where they live. So anyone who cares about these issues should also be concerned about the qualities of neighbourhoods, towns and cities, and about how they are planned, designed and built.
Human habitats are changing fast. In particular, cities are growing and changing faster than ever before – and more and more children are growing up in cities. How should play advocates, and advocates for more child-friendly places, respond to these changes? This post tries to answer that question.
The post brings together some key strands of my thinking over the years on child-friendliness, outcomes and advocacy. It is a very lightly edited version of my response to a discussion on play and the environment that was initiated by the International Play Association (IPA), of which I am a member. You can find the IPA discussion paper here. Continue reading →
11 Comments
Posted in Child-friendliness, Urbanism
Tagged child-friendly cities, children's independent mobility, Enrique Penalosa, International Play Association, Marketta Kyttä, planning policy, play, Rotterdam, sustainability, urban design, urbanism
Back to the future: how London’s new mayor can reconnect children with nature
Posted on July 11, 2016 | 3 comments
So our new Mayor has made a public commitment that all children should have access to nature. The Government will also soon launch a new plan to restore nature and reconnect children to it. How might Mayor Khan fulfil this ambitious pledge so that London also leads on the Government strategy?
For a blueprint, Sadiq need look no further than my 2011 Sowing the Seeds report, whose central vision strongly echoes his commitment. My goal in writing the report was to get beyond the warm words and (let’s be honest) at times nostalgic sentiment that tends to frame this topic.
Sowing the Seeds took a hard-nosed look at the evidence to show how spending time in nature enhances children’s physical and emotional well-being and learning, and fosters their concern for their environment.
Continue reading →
3 Comments
Posted in Nature, Public policy
Tagged London, Mayor of London, nature, Sadiq Khan, sowing the seeds
An alert and call for action – a new Standard threat to play provision | Bernard Spiegal
Posted on July 4, 2016 | 6 comments
A swift reblog to add my voice to this call for action from my longtime collaborator, Bernard Spiegal. The immediate issue is a highly problematic proposal on surfacing from some of those involved in setting European standards for play equipment.
———–
This is an alert. An alert to all those – across Europe and wider – where European play equipment and surfacing standards are held, or will be held, to apply.   A new Standard is being …
Source: An alert and call for action – a new Standard threat to play provision | Bernard Spiegal
6 Comments
Posted in playground, Public policy, Risk
Tagged playground safety, public policy, Risk, standards
← Older posts
About Rethinking Childhood This website is managed by Tim Gill. Tim is interested in the changing nature of childhood. His work - which embraces writing, independent research, consultancy and public speaking - aims to have a positive impact on children's everyday lives.
Search this website
Search for:
Facebook
Facebook
Recent posts
How street play can help save cities from the car
What’s so bad about a father trying to make the world a more play-friendly place?
Playground surfacing (again), cycle helmets and public risk: there are no simple answers
A small but potentially significant win for risk benefit assessment
Making the case for more playful and child-friendly places
Back to the future: how London’s new mayor can reconnect children with nature
An alert and call for action – a new Standard threat to play provision | Bernard Spiegal
The R word: risk, uncertainty and the possibility of adverse outcomes in play
Browse by categoryBrowse by category
Select Category
Child development  (21)
Child-friendliness  (4)
Education  (30)
Health  (12)
Learning  (23)
Mobility  (13)
Morality  (5)
Nature  (26)
Outdoor play  (84)
Parenting  (28)
play  (35)
Play spaces  (23)
playground  (27)
Public policy  (53)
Public space  (25)
Risk  (75)
Technology  (3)
Uncategorized  (1)
Urbanism  (34)
Browse by tagsadventure
Adventure playground
ASTM
Australia
bullying
campaign
Canada
car dependence
child-friendly cities
child death
child development
childhood
children's independent mobility
children's moral development
child safety
community
crime
deep play
design
early years
EC1
education
everyday adventure
evidence
exploration
Forest school
freedom
free range kids
Funding
health
Health and Safety Executive
hide and seek
HSE
London
media
Media coverage
mobility
National Trust
nature
nature deficit disorder
nature play
neighbourhood
outdoor education
outdoor play
parenting
planning policy
play
playable space
Play England
playground
playground safety
playing out
Play Safety Forum
play space
playwork
policy
public policy
public space
research
responsibility
Risk
risk assessment
risk benefit assessment
road closure
schools
skateboarding
standards
street play
streets
transport
urban design
urbanism
USA
video
WalthamstowGet new posts by email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 987 other followers
RSS Feed RSS - Posts
Blogs I follow
A view from the cycle path
Active Kids Club
Bernard Spiegal
Bishopblog
Danielsaurus
David Ball
Diamond geezer
Free Our Kids
Free Range Kids
I'm a teacher, get me OUTSIDE here!
Inside the secret garden
Its mother's work
Kaid Benfeld's blog
Let your child fail
Love Outdoor Play
Michael Rosen's blog
Morgan Leichter-Saxby
Movement for Liveable London
Neighbourhoods
Place shakers
Playborhood
Playgroundology
Playscapes
Plexity
Salon.com > Dream City
Slow Family Online
Sowing the Seeds London
Strong Towns
Teacher Tom
The architecture of early childhood
The Parenting Mystique
The Risky Kids
Tim Harford
Tim’s twitter feed
RT @phillybanister: Traffic is 2nd highest cause of child deaths. Shocking stat from @timrgill & stopping our cities from being #childfrien… 				3 days ago
Start the week at 9 this morning on @bbcradio4 sounds #playful - with @stevenbjohnson and @TimHarford . 				6 days ago
RT @outdoorteacher: Don't forget to book your place with Tim Gill @timrgill on 4th April, Risk & Play with Children
bit.ly/1xJNrec… 				1 week ago
A Chinese translation of my most popular post ever, on playground safety!
ow.ly/9DS4308z4bZ #riskyplay 2 weeks ago
A Chinese translation of my most popular post ever, on playground safety!
ow.ly/9DS4308z4bZ #riskyplay 2 weeks ago
Follow @timrgillWebsite Stats
658,470 page views since July '11
Blog at WordPress.com.
Rethinking Childhood
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
