CHARTER
Skip banner and navigation.Netscape 4 users follow this link.
Tuesday December 09, 2008
Digital Assets > CHARTER
Text-only version of this page
Academic Services homepage
About Academic Services
Comments and feedback
Library homepage
Enquiries
Library Services
Code of Practice & Regulations
Library News & Newsletter
Opening Hours
Libraries & Collections
The Libraries
Special Collections
Bill Douglas Centre
Using the Libraries
Access & Borrowing
Copyright
Disability & Additional Services
Distance Learning Services
Guides, Bibliographies & Tutorials
Information Skills Support
International Student Services
Electronic Resources
UoE Library Catalogue
Electronic Journals & Databases
Institutional Repository
Past Examination Papers
Internet Resources
Other Catalogues
Search Multiple Resources
Other Libraries & Services
Access to & from other Libraries
UCF / Cornwall Campus Library
List of UK HE & National Libraries
Academic Services Staff Intranet
CHARTER
Creating Heritage Artefacts for Research and Teaching in an E-Repositor
Welcome to CHARTER
Project CHARTER aims to create the infrastructure and processes required to capture, document and preserve digital surrogates drawn from the University’s Special Collections and to make them available for teaching and research through a new online repository created through the project.
In this funded phase, running from Oct 08 to Sept 09, the new repository will be populated with 4000+ digital surrogates selected within a common theme: their representation of popular culture, 1800-1914.
CHARTER will draw heavily on the collections of the Bill Douglas Centre for the History of Cinema and Popular Culture, as well as the rare book and archive collections. The selection of artefacts will be led by an interdisciplinary team of academics.
This project is funded by JISC as part of the Enriching Digital Resources programme, a strand of the Digitisation programme.
Academic Services, The University of Exeter, Main Library, Stocker Road, Exeter, Devon, UK EX4 4PT
Telephone: +44 1392 263939
E-mail: as-contact@exeter.ac.uk Last updated on
Monday, 26 January, 2009
by: Ahmed Abu-Zayed
Copyright and Disclaimer
NOTE FOR NETSCAPE 4 users: This website has been produced to be
standards compliant. If you can read this message, you may be
viewing the site using an older browser. Whilst all the content in
this site will be accessible to you, some of the presentational
aspects may not. To see this site as it is intended , you should
consider using a modern browser. See the
Web Standards Project for more details.
