Cambridge AWiSE
Skip to content
Connecting and Inspiring Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine.
Home
Events
CamAWiSE winter social – wine-tasting!
Winter Networking 2016
CAMAWiSE WiSE UP workshop series 2016-2017
WiSE UP 2016-2017 Speaker Profiles
Events Archive
AGM – 2017 Nomination Forms
Resources
Resources
Returners
Upcoming events
Relevant reports and articles
Women in STEM profiles
CamAWISE Reports and Publications
About
Contact
About
The History of Cambridge AWiSE
CamAWiSE Sponsors
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Policy
Join Us
Membership
Join CamAWiSE
Membership Renewal
The Cambridge AWiSE Steering Group
Meet the Steering Group
All female voyage to Antarctica
An adventure involving 75 international scientists with an agenda to change the world.
Deborah Pardo, a Research Associate at Lucy Cavendish College, was part of the first Homeward Bound expedition, a groundbreaking leadership, strategic and science...Read more
Winter networking 2016
Speed networking, stories of real-life professional women and mince pies. That could be a recap of the 2016 winter networking, but it was so much more.
Mince pies
During the speed networking, the...Read more
Meet the Steering Group – Claire Lucas
What is your current profession/background?
I am Information Services Manager at Alzheimer’s Research UK, the UK’s leading dementia research charity, based just outside Cambridge. I manage a small team dedicated to providing high-quality, evidence-based health information...Read more
Getting noticed on LinkedIn
“I have attended events on LinkedIn before, but this workshop’s step-wise approach to building a meaningful and strong profile had much more impact”, said one attendee coming out of the CamAWiSE event. The ‘Getting noticed...Read more
Finding your career anchor with Tennie Videler
We all have a particular orientation towards work and our professional goals. We approach our work with a certain set of priorities and values, which we call “career anchors”: a combination of perceived areas of...Read more
What next for your career in science
The MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology (LMB) and CamAWiSE held their 10th annual event 'What next for your career in science' on 30th June.
Hayley Sharpe, a Principal Investigator at the Cambridge Institute for Medical Research...Read more
Book now! ‘Career anchors: identify your strengths & values’
Don’t miss the first event of the new CAMAWiSE season. Booking for ‘Career anchors: identify your strengths & values’ is now open to all.
Learn more and book here.
Read more
CamAWiSE Media event with Don Powell
Our much-anticipated ‘Media’ event took place on 14th June with media consultant, Don Powell, helping a group of us to peek behind the scenes of a press office.
Previously of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Don...Read more
Want to know about our upcoming workshops, socials and other events?
Not sure what events are coming up? Wonder no more: sign up for our fortnightly newsletter and you’ll be sure to be among the first to know. We don’t bombard you with information; in addition...Read more
‘Building a Business Case for Diversity’ online game evening with
Dr. Suzanne Doyle-Morris – by Gayle Sullivan
When I first heard about the work of Dr. Suzanne Doyle-Morris: ‘serious games’ workshops to explore issues around subjects, in this case ‘Diversity’, I was intrigued.
On 17th May, I got to have a go myself...Read more
Feb 7
Book now! Deborah Pardo: An all female travel to Antarctica
Talk starts at 20:00. A short AGM will follow.
Download the poster here
Book now closed.
Share this:TwitterFacebookLinkedInLike this:Like Loading...
Jan 28
All female voyage to Antarctica
An adventure involving 75 international scientists with an agenda to change the world.
Deborah Pardo, a Research Associate at Lucy Cavendish College, was part of the first Homeward Bound expedition, a groundbreaking leadership, strategic and science initiative for women, set against the backdrop of Antarctica. The inaugural voyage took place last December.
The initiative, turned global movement, aimed to heighten the influence and impact of women with a science background in order to influence policy and decision making as it shapes our planet. 76 women were selected from around the world and included astronomers, engineers, physicists, science communicators, Antarctic and Arctic specialists, doctors and social scientists.
Deborah Pardo will share her inspiring experience with us, illustrating her talk with some fantastic slides. Find out why she decided to apply for this extraordinary project, how she set about fundraising for €20,000 and how CamAWiSE helped her. Of course, we’ll also hear about the three weeks she spent in Antarctica and how that changed her.
Book now and join us on Wednesday 15th February at Lucy Cavendish College.
Talk starts at 20:00. A short AGM will follow.
Book now closed
£5 members&non-members.
Share this:TwitterFacebookLinkedInLike this:Like Loading...
Jan 17
Wine tasting: women winemakers.
Don’t forget to book for our first event of the year: wine tasting. The theme will be women winemakers. It is a great opportunity to chat with and enjoy the company of other women who work in STEM and related areas.
The evening includes the tasting of several good quality wines, and some food (usually cheese, charcuterie, bread, and olives). With expert hosting by Cambridge Wine Merchants, whose wine tastings are fun, informal and informative, this will be a great evening.
You can download the poster here.
Booking is now closed.
Share this:TwitterFacebookLinkedInLike this:Like Loading...
Dec 12
Winter networking 2016
Speed networking, stories of real-life professional women and mince pies. That could be a recap of the 2016 winter networking, but it was so much more.
Mince pies
During the speed networking, the room was filled with energy as attendees changed partner every five minutes. This allowed everybody to make more contacts and to hone their networking skills.
End of a five minutes segment.
After the networking, several members of the steering group talked about their professional careers. Although they all had different paths they all stressed the importance of doing what you enjoy and not what you are supposed to do
Julia Bardos
Anne Clarke
For all of them, CamAWiSE was very important in different stages of their career as a friendly and supportive group. Indeed, CamAWiSE is a good place to connect with professional women who share similar experiences, gain skills and increase your confidence.
Penny Coggill
Claire Lucas
We also had an impromptu speaker: Lucy Bennett, an engineering student who brought out the importance of having female role models for students like her.
Lucy Bennett
Thank you very much to all the speakers for sharing their experiences with us.
Share this:TwitterFacebookLinkedInLike this:Like Loading...
Dec 10
Meet the Steering Group – Claire Lucas
What is your current profession/background?
I am Information Services Manager at Alzheimer’s Research UK, the UK’s leading dementia research charity, based just outside Cambridge. I manage a small team dedicated to providing high-quality, evidence-based health information about Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia.
I have always worked in scientific information, from the early days of online literature searching and information retrieval. My career path started with a chance encounter with online searching through a temporary job when I first moved to Cambridge. This led to roles with the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre, the Royal Society of Chemistry and Cambridge Display Technology, and I also worked freelance for a number of years.
What point in your life led you to pursue a STEM career?
I fell into science by accident! I was heading for a career as a bilingual secretary when I discovered geology in the sixth form and fell in love with it! This was definitely partly due to a brilliant teacher, as is so often the case. From that point, despite having no previous science qualifications, I did everything I could to change direction and managed to persuade UEA to let me study for a degree in Environmental Science. I never looked back!
What is one of your biggest aspirations?
Having just been promoted into a management role for the first time in many years, for the moment I just want to get to grips with my new responsibilities and feel confident that I’m doing a good job.
What advice would you give to aspiring female scientists and engineers?
Don’t give up and don’t let anyone tell you that you can’t do something. If you want something enough you will make it happen.
How have you benefited from being a part of CamAWiSE?
I joined CamAWiSE about four years ago when I was working freelance, and was delighted when shortly afterwards I had the opportunity to apply for the post of Coordinator for the organisation. My application was successful, and I spent a happy 18 months organising events, running the membership and meeting and greeting attendees at our events. This built my confidence in many ways and gave me new skills to add to my CV.
In 2014, having made the decision to terminate my freelance activities, I successfully applied for a full-time role with Alzheimer’s Research UK, and had to give up my Coordinator duties. Since then I’ve been a member of the Steering Group and have added further strings to my bow including becoming Co-chair.
In addition to developing new skills, I’ve made some great friends through CamAWiSE. It’s a very special organisation which provides a safe and supportive environment for women to learn, develop and network.
What do you like to do in your free time?
I love to be outside enjoying the sights and sounds of nature. I enjoy walking very much, though prefer somewhat more interesting landscapes than those found around Cambridge! I’m also a great fan of classical music and love to read when I have time.
Ask me about…..
Dementia; plants and horticulture; choral singing.
Share this:TwitterFacebookLinkedInLike this:Like Loading...
← Older Entries
Become a Member
Full Member
Student
Upcoming Events
Search CamAWiSE
Search
Join in the discussion on
For news & event updates, join our email list by emailing ucam-awise-request@lists.cam.ac.uk, with subscribe in the subject.
CamAWiSE on TwitterMy TweetsOn the AWiSE blog
AWISE history
Biological Sciences
Book reviews
Business and Entrepreneurship
CamAWiSE events
CamAWISE news
Computer science and IT
Disciplines of work
Engineering
Mathematics
Medicine
Mentoring
Networking
Physical Sciences
Profiles
Returners
Role models
Skills
Work-Life Balance
About Cambridge AWiSE A regional network for women in STEM,
we bring together women from both industry and academia.
CamAWiSE acts as a source of support, information and inspiration. We aim to help women stay in STEM and make the most of their careers. We host regular talks, workshops, networking opportunities and have an active online community who share information through our website, twitter, linkedin and facebook.
You can also join our email list for a digest of news & events.
Cambridge AWiSE welcomes members from all career stages.
Based in Cambridge, UK, we welcome anyone from the Eastern Region (and beyond!).
For news & event updates, please join our email list by emailing ucam-awise-request@lists.cam.ac.uk, with subscribe in the subject.
abroad
biological sciences
blogging
blogs
book review
business
CamAWiSE
Cambridge
Cambridge AWISE headquarters
Cambridge AWiSE network
Cambridge Wine Merchants
career
career change
careers
chemistry
Clare Kerrison
communication
communication skills
company
consultancy
Daphne Jackson
development
dinner
diversity
Engineering
enterpreneurship
event
eventbrite
event report
event review
family
food and wine pairing
health
history
industry
IT
lab lit
LinkedIn
Lucy Cavendish college
male-dominated
Maths
MBTI
medicine
Mentoring
negotiation skills
networking
outreach
policy
profile
public engagement
red wine
Research
returner
Returners
Ruth Barber
science
social
social media
start-ups
statistics
status quo
steering group
STEM
support
Technical
technology
tips
transferable skills
twitter
Wine Tasting
WiSE Up
WiSE UP 2016
Women
workplace environment
workshops
WiSE links, Cambridge and regional
Cam Women in Tech
Cambridge GirlGeek Dinners
Enterprise Wise
STEM links, Cambridge and regional
Cambridge Science Centre
Cambridge Science Festival
MakeSpace
STEM Team East
WiSE links
Daphne Jackson Trust
Oxford AWiSE
ScienceGrrl
UK Resource Centre for Women in SET
WiSE – promoting gender equality & diversity in SET
WiTEC – The European Association for Women in Science, Engineering and Technology
Women in Science Research Network
Women in Technology – networking, information, training, jobs
Women returners professional network
Women's Engineering Society
Blogs we read
Athene Donald's Blog
Jenny Rohn – Mind the Gap
The Valentina Project
Trowelblazers
Zinemin's random thoughts – women in science
Professional bodies
British Computer Society
Institute of Engineering and Technology
Institute of Physics – Women in Physics
Royal Society of Chemistry
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this:
