Campaign for the Public University |
Home
About
Articles
Contact Us
Manifesto
Other Campaigns
Action
Comment
Join
News
Videos
subscribe: Posts | Comments
search the site
POSTED
BY Campaign for the Public University IN Action, Comment ON Jul 29, 2016 | 0 comments
Let a hundred flower...
The publication of the report of the Stern Review, Research Excellence Framework (REF) Review: Building on Success and Learning from Experience ,...
POSTED
BY Campaign for the Public University IN Action ON Jul 16, 2016 | 0 comments
Higher Education and...
The Government is rushing the HE Bill through to its Second Reading in the House of Commons.
The Second Reading has been called, at very short...
POSTED
BY Campaign for the Public University IN Action ON Jun 8, 2016 | 0 comments
Knowledge for a Succ...
The Convention for Higher Education was formed to promote the public values of higher education and includes colleagues from the Council for the...
featured news
Prev
Next
RECENT FROM Action
Let a hundred flowers fad...
The publication of the report of the Stern Review, Research Excellence Framework (REF) Review: Building on...
RECENT FROM Comment
Let a hundred flowers fad...
The publication of the report of the Stern Review, Research Excellence Framework (REF) Review: Building on...
RECENT FROM News
Slouching toward the Mark...
The Government’s Green Paper, ‘Fulfilling our Potential: Teaching Excellence, Social Mobility and Student...
Papering over the cracks: the coming ...
It seems that the White paper setting out the Government’s legislative programme for higher education following the...
posted on: Apr 25, 2016 | author: Campaign for the Public University
Sock Puppets, Muzzles and the Impact ...
This post by John Holmwood first appeared on the Making Science Public blog.
A new threat to the contribution of...
posted on: Feb 25, 2016 | author: Campaign for the Public University
Barbarians at the Gate
Shirin M Rai
Because night has fallen and the barbarians have not come.
And some...
posted on: Feb 17, 2016 | author: Campaign for the Public University
Tuition Fees: 10 Reasons Against
Emma Clery sets out Ten Good Reasons Why University Tuition Fees Are A Bad Idea
‘Our society benefited from having a...
posted on: Nov 9, 2015 | author: Campaign for the Public University
Slouching toward the Market: the new ...
The Government’s Green Paper, ‘Fulfilling our Potential: Teaching Excellence, Social Mobility and Student...
posted on: Nov 8, 2015 | author: John Holmwood
Fighting Against Casualisation in Edu...
Conference Invitation!
Fighting Against Casualisation in Education – 2nd National Conference
Cruciform Building,...
posted on: Nov 5, 2015 | author: Campaign for the Public University
« Previous Entries
Powered by
WordPress | Designed by
Elegant Themes
