uoccaptcha [licensed for non-commercial use only] / UofC Building Capacity Project
uoccaptcha
log inhelp
Get a free wiki
|
Try our free business product
WikiPages & Files
View
UofC Building Capacity Project
Page history
last edited
by Sarah Chesney 6 years, 7 months ago
Introduction
The UofC Building
Capacity Project (locally known as Captcha) aims to use technologies to
enhance the experience of new entrants into HE, building upon lessons
learnt from previous JISC projects and research.  The UofC project aims
to address the issue of enhancing the newly enrolled student experience
at an institutional level through two key activities:
The
exploration and piloting of social networking sites and/or the
institutional VLE to give students pre-entry access to one another and
to the institution
Publish student
generated content that addresses key themes in the student experience.
Both these
aims will only be achieved if the UofC project involves and works with
services and faculties across the institution.
How this
literature review has been conducted:
The results from
this literature review have fallen naturally into two distinct areas:
Publications
that are a synthesis of research (Section A).  These provide findings from a range
of studies and provide advice on how to approach the use of technology
to enhance the student experience.  The recommendations in this section
(section A) provided the UofC project with a context and background from
which the project could safely make certain assumptions.
Project reports (Section B ) that can give the UofC
project very directive ‘signposts’ on how to turn the
assumptions derived from section A into reality in our own context.
Literature
review summary
The search for
relevant reports followed the key themes identified in the bid as
follows: user-generated content; transition; induction;  first year
experience;  retention; work-based learning; mentoring; linking student
and official site areas;  the development of existing institutional
systems;  the deployment of specific tools (wikis, podcasts, blogs
etc.); and the role of individual agents or ‘champions’ in pioneering
new software.
Close attention
was directed towards strategies for the recruitment and retention of
student participants. While some projects had used material rewards,
such as vouchers or competition prizes, a number of others reported that
students were more interested in intangible benefits. These ranged from
the value of participation for a curriculum vitae to the associated
kudos among peers to more altruistic motives related to  helping future
students.
Across the full
range of reports, there were surprisingly few concerned specifically
with transition, induction and, or, the first year experience. The UoC
project is keen to investigate early access to the VLE.  Relatively few
studies appear to have tackled this.  Those directly concerned with
user-generated content included TWOLER, HELLO, SPACE-fD  and WIPEL. The
LExDis project was dedicated to the production of user-generated content
for students with disabilities.
Several new themes
emerged d which will be important for researchers to bear in mind as
the Cumbria project unfolds. The increasing diversity of the student
population recurred throughout. Accordingly the project will need to
acknowledge and accommodate the corresponding diversity in aims and
expectations, in prior experience, both of technology and of education
and also differences in values and beliefs.
Several studies
reported ‘a big skills gap’ between students (MORI  / WIPEL / LEaD  /
WALES / LLiDA ). A report by the Open University
(January 2009) warned against making ‘assumptions about students’ skills
with tools’  Although students might be very familiar with using
Facebook for example,  they may lack the confidence or  digital
proficiency to deploy the software creatively in an unfamiliar context.
There were repeated references to differing  levels of sophistication in
manipulation of digital literacies and to students’ need for access to
support. Researchers underlined the role of thorough training and
induction for those (staff included) who needed it.
One report (WIPEL)
drew attention to the communication of multiple identities social,
professional and academic, online. The authors stressed the importance
of alerting students to the different levels and modes of formality and
informality, to make explicit  the socio-cultural practices underlying
the processes of technology.
Several studies
noted the critical importance of sustaining frequent  communication
between partners and team members (face to face as well as online) and
the readiness to be responsive and adapt to changing contexts over time.
Section C outlines
the projects that UofC read, but felt that they were of less
significance to UofC project that those in Section B.
Section D summarises
our next steps.
Authors: Mary Ashworth, Jeremy Benson, Sarah Chesney
June 30th, 2010.
UofC Building Capacity Project
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
PBworks
/ Help
Terms of use / Privacy policy
About this workspace
Contact the owner /
RSS feed /
This workspace is public
Navigator
Loading…
SideBar
This is your Sidebar, which you can edit like any other page in your workspace.
This Sidebar appears everywhere on your workspace. Add to it whatever you like -- a navigation section, a link to your favorite web sites, or anything else.
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
