Staycation - Wikipedia
Staycation
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
This article is about a vacation where the people return home each night (or most nights). For a vacation spent in a different part of the same country, see domestic tourism.
This article is written like a personal reflection or opinion essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (December 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Spending time in a backyard swimming pool is one of the activities sometimes enjoyed during a staycation.
A staycation (a portmanteau of "stay" and "vacation"), also known as a holistay (a portmanteau of "holiday" and "stay")[citation needed], is a period in which an individual or family stays home and participates in leisure activities within driving distance, sleeping in their own beds at night. They might make day trips to local tourist sites, swimming venues, or engage in fun activities such as horseback riding, paintball, hiking or visiting museums. Most of the time it involves dining out more frequently than usual. Staycations achieved popularity in the U.S. during the financial crisis of 2007–2010.[1][2] Staycations also became a popular phenomenon in the UK in 2009 as a weak pound made overseas holidays significantly more expensive.[3]
Common activities of a staycation include use of the backyard pool, visits to local parks and museums, and attendance at local festivals and amusement parks. Some staycationers also like to follow a set of rules, such as setting a start and end date, planning ahead, and avoiding routine, with the goal of creating the feel of a traditional vacation.[4]
Contents
1 Etymology
2 Benefits
3 Risks
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
Etymology[edit]
The word staycation is a portmanteau of stay (meaning stay-at-home) and vacation.[5][6] The terms "holistay" and "daycation" are also sometimes used.[2] The blog Wordspy.com attributes the earliest reference to this term as coming from a 2003 article in The Sun News.[5] According to a Connecticut travel blog, the word "staycation" was originally coined by Canadian comedian Brent Butt[7] in the television show Corner Gas, in the episode "Mail Fraud", which first aired October 24, 2005. The word became widely used in the United States during May 2008 as the summer travel season began with gas prices reaching record highs, leading many people to cut back on expenses including travel.[8][9][10]
The term was added to the 2009 version of the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary.[11]
A closely related concept and term is nearcation, which is taking a vacation to a location relatively close to home.[12][13] "Nearcation" and "staycation" may be used interchangeably since the travel destination may be in the same metropolitan region in which one resides and it is unclear how far away a destination needs to be until it becomes no longer a "staycation".
Nearcation is a portmanteau of near and vacation. The alternate naycation ("nay" + "vacation") has been used to signify total abstention from travel.[14]
Lake Superior State University added the word to its 2009 List of Banished Words. The citation noted that vacation is not synonymous with travel, and thus a separate term isn't necessary to describe a vacation during which one stays at home.[15]
Benefits[edit]
Staycations are far less costly than a vacation involving traveling. There are no lodging costs and travel expenses are minimal. Costs may include transportation for local trips, dining, and local attractions.[16] "The American Automobile Association said the average North American vacation will cost $244 per day for two people for lodging and meals.... Add some kids and airfare, and a 10-day vacation could top $8,000."[16]
Staycations do not have the stress associated with travel, such as packing, long drives, or waits at airports.[17]
Indeed, a few people go as far as leaving their home only for their usual errands (such as food shopping). Those with backyard swimming pools have an advantage as they can spend more time swimming without leaving their property and sometimes have as much fun as they might have had going anywhere.
Staycations may be of economic benefit to some local businesses, who get customers from the area providing them with business. In 2008, the tourism bureaus of many U.S. cities also began promoting staycations for their residents to help replace the tourism dollars lost from a drop in out-of-town visitors.[4]
Risks[edit]
As staycationers are close to their places of employment, they may be tempted to go to work at least part of the time, and their bosses may feel their employees are available to be called into work. Staycationers also have access to their email (whether personal or business) at home as they would regularly, allowing them to be contacted, and feeling the temptation to keep up with this contact (whether business or social).[17] These risks can be balanced by strictly adhering rules that make the experience feel like a real get-away, such as "no checking email," or "no watching television."
Staycationers may spend money they had not planned as retailers and other advertisers offer "deals" to encourage staycationers to spend money.[18][19] These may include hotels making package deals in hopes of luring planned staycationers to do some travel.[7][20] Staycationers can also finish a stay-at-home vacation feeling unsatisfied if they allow themselves to fall into their daily monotony and include household projects, errands, and other menial tasks in their vacation at home or near home.[4]
See also[edit]
CouchSurfing
Day-tripper
Hitchhiking
References[edit]
^ "Get away on vacation — at home". 12 March 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ a b "Page Not Found". Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ "Staycations Boom Despite Summer Gloom", Sky News, 2009-08-16. Retrieved on 2009-09-01.
^ a b c Wixon, Matt (18 March 2009). "The Great American Staycation: How to Make a Vacation at Home Fun for the Whole Family". Adams Media. Retrieved 2 August 2016 – via Amazon.
^ a b Spy, Word. "staycation - Word Spy". Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ "Buzzword: Staycation: Consumer Reports Home & Garden Blog". Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ a b "Staycation Connecticut Style"
^ Goldman, David (2008-05-07). "Congress takes on gasoline prices". CNN. Retrieved 2010-05-24.
^ "Buzzword: Staycation". Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ Summer Staycation
^ "Locavores, staycations get official in dictionary". 10 July 2009. Retrieved 2 August 2016 – via Reuters.
^ - Nearcation Trend Helps Hershey Park Stay Sweet
^ "Vacationers travel roads closer to home to save the summer - USATODAY.com". Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ Elliott, Christopher (2008-12-28). "9 reasons '09 will be the year of the naycation". Elliott: The Travel Critic. Retrieved 2009-01-21.
^ "Lake Superior State University 2009 List of Banished Words", January 1, 2009.
^ a b "Avoiding high gas prices with a 'staycation'". 29 May 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ a b "Staycations: Alternative to pricey, stressful travel - CNN.com". CNN. 2008-06-12. Retrieved 2010-05-24.
^ "Retailers promote 'staycation' sales". USA Today. 2008-05-23. Retrieved 2010-05-24.
^ Retailers promote 'staycation' sales - Yahoo! News
^ "abc15.com - ABC15 Arizona news in Phoenix - KNXV-TV". Retrieved 2 August 2016.
External links[edit]
Look up staycation in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Wikinews has related news: New words added to Webster's dictionary
v
t
e
Tourism
Types
Accessible
Adventure
Agritourism
Alternative
Atomic
Birth
Business
Culinary
Enotourism
Cultural
Archaeological
Bookstore
Music
Pop-culture
Dark
Holocaust
Disaster
Domestic
Drug
Ecotourism
Shark
Extreme
Factory Tourism
Garden
Genealogy
Geotourism
Heritage
Militarism heritage
Honeymoon
Jihadi
Jungle
Justice
LGBT
Literary
Tolkien
Medical
Dental
Moon
Nautical
Rail
Religious
Christian
Halal
Kosher
Rural
Sacred
Safaris
Sex
Child sex
Female sex
Slum
Space
Sports
Stag party
Suicide
Sustainable
Vacation
Volunteer travel
War
Water
Wellness
Wildlife
Hospitality
industry
Bed and breakfast
Boutique hotel
Conference and resort hotels
Convention center
Destination spa
Front desk
General manager
Homestay
Hospitality management studies
Hospitality services
Hostel
Hotel
Hotel manager
Inn
Island resort
Motel
Referral chain
Resort
Resort town
Restaurant
Seaside resort
Ski resort
Terminology
Campus tour
Convention (meeting)
Gift shop
Grand Tour
Holiday (vacation)
Hypermobility
Package tour
Passport
Perpetual traveler
Road trip
Roadside attraction
Souvenir
Staycation
Sunday drive
Tour guide
Tour operator
Tourism geography
Tourism minister
Tourism region
Tourist attraction
Tourist gateway
Tourist trap
Touron
Transport
Travel
Travel agency
Travel behavior
Travel document
Travel insurance
Travel literature
Travel medicine
Travel survey
Travel technology
Travel warning
Travel website
Trip planner
Visa
Visitor center
Industry organizations,
rankings and events
American Bus Association
American Hotel and Lodging Association
American Hotel & Lodging Educational Institute
BEST Education Network
Caribbean Tourism Organization
Destination marketing organization
European Travel Commission
Historical archive on tourism
South-East Asian Tourism Organisation
Tourism Radio
Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report
Wikivoyage
World Tourism Day
World Tourism Organization
World Tourism rankings
World Travel and Tourism Council
World Travel Monitor
Lists
Adjectival tourisms
Attractions
Bibliography
Casino hotels
Casinos
Convention and exhibition centers
Hotels
Largest hotels in the world
Motels
Travel magazines
UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists
World Heritage Sites by country
Category
Commons
Portal
WikiProject
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Staycation&oldid=760138798"
Categories: Types of tourismTourist activitiesNeologismsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing style editing from December 2011All articles needing style editingAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2016
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Article
Talk
Variants
Views
Read
Edit
View history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store
Interaction
HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page
Tools
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
Languages
Svenska
Edit links
This page was last modified on 15 January 2017, at 05:29.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view
