The Design Studio / SDF DL
The Design Studio
log inhelp
WikiPages & Files
View
SDF DL
Page history
last edited
by Marianne Sheppard 2 years, 6 months ago
Staff Development Forum
Welcome to the Staff Development Forum Digital Literacies page.
What we've achieved...
Project Contacts:
Andy Wilson
DL core team member
01509 222380
Loughborough
andywilson48@gmail.com
Rebecca Radics
DL core team member
Nottingham Trent
rebecca.radics@ntu.ac.uk
Please contact us if you have any comments or suggestions.
1. The Staff Development Forum
The purpose of the SDF is to develop the staff who develop the staff in HEIs. These staff developers operate from a range of locations but they have a common focus on designing and delivering training and development interventions with their colleagues.
Staff Development Forum
2. Digital Literacy and the SDF
We're happy to work with the JISC definition of Digital Literacies:
"... those capabilities which fit an individual for living, learning and working in a digital society."
They are clearly important for the people with whom the SDF's members work, but the levels of digital literacy within the staff development community are very varied and often quite low. This can impact negatively on the experience of staff within institutions and also on staff developers themselves; hence our eagerness to be involved in this project.
3. Professional development
Our general view is that DLs, like other forms of literacy, depend on the context within which they are used. And since staff developers engage with staff right across their institution and at all levels it is unlikely that any single competency-based framework will fit our users. Neither - given the diversity of our functions - is such an approach likely to fit the needs of our members themselves.
We're also conscious of the dangers associated with "technologies in search of a use" and much prefer a creative dialogue at the interface of processes, challenges and technologies. So our fundamental approach will be to develop our familiarity with DLs and to seek to use this developing expertise to help address the practical concerns of staff developers.
One particular aspect that we are interested in, and will seek to work on with other professional associations, is the way in which staff developers and IT and information staff in institutions work together. In some insitutions there are close and effective links, but this is by no means always the case.
So, overall, we have three main motivations in relation to this project:
To make the operations of the SDF itself more digitally literate
To enhance the digital literacies of our colleagues in the staff development community
To encourage closer links between staff developers and IT and information staff so that the different groups can learn from each other
4. Baselining digital literacy provision
In line with this thinking we will baseline DLs amongst the staff development community by:
engaging in semi-structured interviews
capturing information on current levels of use of digital technologies
identifying current concerns of staff developers within their day-to-day work
We will also use this process to start a conversation about how technologies might be used to address these current concerns.
5. Resources
We already have resources in two main areas, and we will add to these during the course of the project.
The first area is that of change. Technological developments typically involve change, and although there are clearly specific technical aspects, fundamentally change is change. And staff developers typically work to help people through change. Hence we have valuable expertise to offer and we have shared resources on this within the Embed-IT project. See the Change Management section within...
http://jiscdesignstudio.pbworks.com/w/page/46865571/Embed-IT%20framework
The second area is a good example of our desire to apply technologies appropriately to real problems.
In the east midlands we have run very successful action learning sets for several years. (The materials listed below provide an explanation of what action learning is.) People are prepared to travel the relatively short distances involved.
Action learning sets involving more dispersed members tend to fail because of the time, cost and carbon involved with travel. The challenge, therefore, was how to deliver action learning online. And the answer was through using Elluminate (now Collaborate). The papers below tell you all about the project, which was supported by the Leadership Foundation.
A brief introduction
Web intro page 110824.docx
A Powerpoint presentation on Online Action Learning
OAL 110722.pptx
More detailed guidance and evaluation
OAL Guidance 110824.doc
6. Activities and events
The work on this project will be shared at the Spring and Autumn conferences and in regional groups.
Early activities are:
baselining
a programme of webinars
7. Findings and conclusions
These will be shared as they emerge.
SDF DL
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
Tags:
JISC DDL, digital literacy, professional associations, professional bodies, professional development, staff development, SDF
SDF DL tags changed
SideBar
Home
About the Design Studio
Accessing the Design Studio
Developing Digital Literacies
Developing digital literacies in the curriculum
Developing digital literacies for digital scholars and researchers
Developing digital literacies for employability
Developing digital pioneers
Developing digitally literate institutions
Developing your digital literacies
Curriculum Change and Transformation
Curriculum Challenges
Curriculum Processess
Curriculum Technologies
Curriculum Design & Delivery programme
Curriculum Design Institutional Stories
Transforming Assessment & Feedback
Assessment & Feedback Programme
Assessment & Feedback Topics
Assessment & Feedback Tools and Resources
Embedding Benefits
About the Embedding Benefits programme
View All Tags
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
