epress™ - Electronic Publishing Resource Service
Home
Features
Pricing
Tour
Demo
User Guide
Login
Contact
Support
Welcome to epress, the most efficient and effective way to replace journal management drudgery with automated control.
SAVE TIME: If you edit or publish a specialist peer review journal, the epress journal management system is guaranteed to cut hours or even days from your administrative burden, by orchestrating and automating the entire editorial process from submission to publication.
ADD EFFICIENCY: Ten years' development has produced a proven approach to handling academic journal work flows, facilitating a much simpler way to manage and administer each step in the process, while improving both speed and efficiency.
Intelligent database software generates prompts and reports, allowing you to monitor and manage every stage of the process, from submissions and reviews to refereeing, publication and subscriptions.
CREATE PEACE OF MIND: Epress provides a quick and easy way to select and invite referees, monitor progress, chase responses and issue decision letters. By protecting and prompting progress, it takes the worry out of the editorial process.
ENJOY UNIVERSAL ACCESS: Designed by editors for editors, this web-based tool can be accessed anywhere in the world from a laptop and standard internet browser. Optimised for electronic publications, the customised format also lends itself to hard copy journals.
BENEFIT COST-EFFECTIVELY: Each article submission processed through epress carries a unit cost, with units being bought in blocks in advance. With 'pay as you use' pricing and no up-front or annual fees, epress makes it as easy to control costs as content.
I have to say we continue to be delighted with epress. It has quite transformed how some of us are working, and I do believe that combined with our new journal sites it is driving submissions up as promised.
Tom Pollard
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR
MARK ALLEN GROUP
epress reduced the time I spend from two days to half a day
Kurt Richardson
MANAGING EDITOR
EMERGENCE: COMPLEXITY AND ORGANIZATION
I just wanted to let you know that the more I get to grips with this version of epress the more impressed I become with its capabilities.
Professor Steven M Shardlow
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
THE JOURNAL OF SOCIAL WORK
We'll show you how it works
Take an automated guided tour
Find out for yourself
Try an interactive demonstration
What will it cost?
Pricing policy and list
Latest developments
News
Who uses epress?
Subscribing journals
Copyright © 2005-2014 epress. All rights reserved. Valid XHTML 1.1 and CSS.
