The Edinburgh Gadda Prize
Honorary President: Gianrico Carofiglio
Honorary President Gadda Giovani: Fabrizio Gifuni
Chair: Federica G. Pedriali
powered by The Edinburgh Gadda Projects
Home
Community
EGP International
Gadda Giovani
Registration
Committees
Judging panels
Prize winners
Events
Publications
Scholarships
Press Office
Trailers
Galleries
Past Editions
Testimonials
Feedback
Credits
Contact
EJGS
Special Edition
Harvard 201524-27 April 2015
Make it happen
Want to help us make it happen? Why not join the growing number of our supporters? Your support enables us to do more and better. Click here to explore ways to designate a gift to the Prize. The Gadda Prize Team is grateful for gifts of every size. All gifts will be acknowledged in our Friends of the Prize page.
Our supporters
Friends
Partners
Sponsors
The Edinburgh Gadda Prize
Honorary President: Gianrico Carofiglio
Chair: Federica G. Pedriali
powered by The Edinburgh Journal of Gadda Studies
Welcome to the Edinburgh Gadda Prize
The Edinburgh Gadda Projects
The Edinburgh Gadda Prize is
powered by
the Edinburgh Gadda Projects. Founded in 2000 to celebrate the Italian Modernist Carlo Emilio Gadda,
the Projects have
since grown into a formidable network making Edinburgh the premier centre for the promotion of Gadda Studies worldwide. Building on the
Projects’ success, the Prize provides an international platform to recognise scholarly brilliance
while also promoting young creative talent. This is achieved through an exciting combination of scholarly and community projects.
The Prize | The First Five Editions
In its fifth edition, the Edinburgh Gadda Prize is currently hosting Harvard 2015, a special early career award sponsored by Tony Crolla, Vittoria Group Edinburgh. The
Prize was established in 2010 to mark the EJGS Decennial. To date, editions
have alternated between Edinburgh International (Edinburgh 2010 and Edinburgh 2012) and Gadda Giovani (Milan 2011 and Montecassino 2013). Three scholarly awards, Crolla Amato Gadda, Gadda First and Novecento in Saggio, make up Edinburgh International. Gadda Giovani is a national award open to secondary schools primarily but not exclusively in Italy, with first pilots in Scotland, in 2010, and
first international young people mobility programmes in 2012 and 2013.
The Prize in Action
Gadda Giovani 2013, Rome-Montecassino,4-6 May 2013
Gadda Goes to War – Traverse Theatre, 21-22 Sept 2012
Turning barriers into opportunities – the participants’ take
Turning barriers into opportunities – the participants’ take
Gadda Goes to War – Inaugural Lecture, 20 Sept 2012
On becoming militant in the name of the militance of literature
Other Quick Entryways
People, moments and places are the essence of our project. For all time favourites visit Galleries and Testimonials, or follow us on Facebook and YouTube.
» community
» edinburgh international
» gadda giovani
The Edinburgh Journal of Gadda StudiesDirector: Federica G. Pedrialiall content ©
2000-2017
by G. & F. Pedriali and EJGS
EJGS is a member of CELJ, The Council of Editors of Learned Journals.
