British Atmospheric Data Centre
Beagrie.com
Home
Services
Clients
People
Resources
KRDS
Publications
Contact
News
Project Funder
JISC
NERC
Funded by the Joint Information Systems Committee and the Natural Environment Research Council
Project Partners
The project is being conducted by the British Atmospheric
Data Centre, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (lead partner), Charles
Beagrie Ltd and the Centre for Strategic Economic Studies, Victoria
University.
Value and Impact of the British Atmospheric Data Centre (BADC)
Welcome to the BADC Value and Impact Study project web page.
This web page has been set-up to support dissemination of information on the Value and Impact of the British Atmospheric Data Centre (BADC) study. The project commenced in July 2012 and will conclude in July 2013.
Summary
JISC, the Research Councils and other funders together with HEIs are investing substantial resources in projects and services for research data. It is a high priority area for funders and institutions, and there is strong interest in establishing the value and sustainability of this investment.
Although a number of studies have looked at methods of determining cost benefit and broad indicators of value, there remain significant challenges in establishing baseline data for measuring this in any quantitative way and there are still only a relatively small number of socio-economic studies focussing specifically on the impact of data services or research data infrastructure.
Currently John Houghton and Charles Beagrie Ltd are working on a study for JISC on the Impact of the Archaeology Data Service and have also recently completed a study for ESRC on the economic impact of the Economic and Social Research Data Service (ESDS). Effectively this has applied and adapted methodologies to Social Science disciplines (ESDS) and to a Humanities discipline (ADS).
The partners have selected the British Atmospheric Data Centre (BADC) as a science research community and data repository that is very different from that of either ESDS or ADS, so that the work builds on existing studies and is complementary. The study is being funded by JISC and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
Objectives
The project partners will extend testing and development of the economic and survey collection methods to the BADC data centre, thus further refining the economic methods used in ESDS and being used in ADS, testing and proving them in a different disciplinary area.
Outputs
Project PlanÂ (PDF file).
The main future project outputs will be:
A user and depositor community survey;
A final report.
Outputs will be made available from this project web page.
The Value and Impact of the British Atmospheric Data Centre (BADC) Final Report Â (PDF file).
Contact
For further information see:
The Economic Impact Evaluation of the Economic and Social Data ServiceÂ (PDF file)
Impact of the Archaeology Data Service project web page
The Charles Beagrie Blog
OrÂ Contact Us
All material copyright Charles Beagrie ©2013. Design by Radiant Sky Solutions.
Privacy Policy. Cookie Policy
