e-Learning in the School of Physics and Astronomy
:
EVAF4All
THE UNIVERSITY of EDINBURGH
SCHOOL OF PHYSICS AND ASTRONOMY
Home »
e-Learning in the School of Physics and Astronomy
»
Project Showcase
»
EVAF4All
Skip Navigation
About Us
Introduction
Contacts
Publications
Our Blog
Group Wiki
Our Projects
Project Showcase
MathAssess & FETLAR
Electronic Voting
EVAF4All
Physics 1A
Peerwise
Aardvark
DUMP
LEaD
e-Learner Tracking
STEER
Podcasting
Sign-Up Tool
Coursework Submission Tool
COSMaP
Software
SnuggleTeX
Jacomax
Del.icio.us Links
EVAF4All: Electronic Voting Analysis and Feedback for All
Electronic Voting Handset
Overview
Building on the work of a previous project to
introduce voting systems into
large class lectures, this project will develop a web-based tool for
students and staff to get feedback on the data captured during these episodes
in lectures.
The use of electronic voting systems (EVS) at FE institution level has grown
markedly in recent years. In the last three years, the use of EVS in large
introductory lectures has become increasingly widespread at the University
of Edinburgh (and is aligned to implementation of the
College of Science and
Engineering's Teaching and Learning Strategy).
Capitalising on the growing interest and expertise, this project brings
together experts from multiple institutions and University of Edinburgh
e-learning developers to create a web application
that will provide students and staff with aggregated feedback on such
questions via a simple online interface.
A Question Analysis showing the screenshot for the question (left) and the vote
results (right) - click to expand.
The features of the system will be such that students will be able to obtain
a record of their progress in answering these questions, individually or
aggregated across sections of a course or even the multiple courses for which
they are enrolled. They will be directed back to relevant content via
hyperlinks, and presented statistics regarding whole class performance. This
feedback can thus aid their developing self-management of their own studying
and provide valuable diagnostic feedback.
The staff view of the system will enable aggregated data to be extracted,
which can be used to evaluate the efficacy of questions (which questions
'worked' or did not), sets of questions (for aspects such as breadth, balance
etc) and analyse aggregated student performance (which questions exemplify
misconceptions or difficulties). This analysis can then be used to feed back
into subsequent course development and delivery. The majority of this
information is captured at the point of delivery in the lecture, but the tool
will allow staff to view aggregate data in a far easier fashion.
EVAF4All will create an EVS-neutral soln that will allow its use in many FE
institutions irrespective of the underlying VLE and clicker-loan schemes in place, closing the
feedback loop on this increasingly relevant mode of teaching and learning.
Project Status
This project runs from January 2009 to January 2010 and is jointly funded by
JISC and the
University of Edinburgh, building on a previous pilot carried out as part of
University of Edinburgh's
e-Learning Project Fund in 2007/2008.
Project News
Nov 25, 2008: Awarded JISC funding
Nov/Dec 2008: Planning & Evaluating partner institutions
Feb 2009: Edinburgh Meeting - thanks for those who turned up - very useful feedback
Mar-May 2009: Further requirements gathering
June 2009: Development underway based on modified requirements
Sep 2009: Attending Alt-C with poster session for EVAF4All
Nov 2009: PRS User Group meeting to disemminate findings and demonstrate EVAF4All
Jan 2010: Project funding period has officially ended with reports and outputs to follow soon.
Apr 2010: First release of EVAF - see Project outputs below.
Project Outputs
For the latest EVAF source go to http://rubyforge.org/projects/evaf/ and click on 'Download' or use SVN:svn checkout http://evaf.rubyforge.org/svn/
Project Contacts
Prof Simon Bates, School of Physics and Astronomy
Mr Keith Brunton, School of Physics and Astronomy
Project Documents & Papers
Simon P. Bates, Keith Brunton
EVAF4All JISC Proposal (pdf)
EVAF4All Partners
EVAF4All Partner Questionaire (pdf)
EVAF4All Partners
EVAF4All Insititutional Systems Matrix (pdf)
Keith Brunton, Simon P. Bates
EVAF4All Phase 1 & Phase 2 Requirements (pdf)
Simon P. Bates, Keith Brunton
EVAF4All Alt-C Poster (pdf)
Keith Brunton
EVAF4All PRS User Group Presentation (pdf)
Additional Screenshots
Showing a list of courses (as staff member) - click to expand.
An overview of the questions for a course showing basic stats (as staff member) - click to expand.
Screenshot of the import process - where a lecturer imports the voting data and attaches screenshots and question information - click to expand.
Copyright © 2016 The School of Physics and Astronomy,
The University of Edinburgh.
Contact:
David McKain
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
