Research Clusters | Using data about research clusters to enhance collaboration
Research Clusters
Using data about research clusters to enhance collaboration
Skip to content
HomeAbout Research Clusters
← Older posts
RCUK Classifications in EPrints
Posted on February 4, 2013 by David McElroy
After some spreadsheet ‘tweaking’ I’ve moved our new data registry at Glasgow over to the new updated RCUK Classifications (see earlier post).
This allows us to use a up to date structured subject classification for all our datasets and potentially roll out into the full repository (Enlighten) at some stage.
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Tagged c4d, dataset, enlighten, eprints, Glasgow, rcuk
|
Leave a comment
RCUK Classifications now Available from RCUK Website
Posted on January 30, 2013 by Valerie
Our friends at RCUK have made the subject classifications they use available direct from the RCUK website.
See the pdf and excel links at the bottom of the page:
http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/research/Efficiency/Pages/harmonisation.aspx
We are using these in our fledgling data registry (ePrints based) at the University of Glasgow and may roll them out more widely in our repository.  I am also aware of a number of other organisations who are exploring using these subject classifications in their information systems include bespoke research systems and PURE.
These classifications seem popular as they cover a wide range of topics and the language is user-friendly and therefore more accessible to the general public and stakeholders who are not research organisations or funders.
I’ve suggested to RCUK that we think of a method of alerting those using the codes to any changes and also that it might be useful to have a unique id for each subject (we had to add one in our system).
Posted in News from the Sector
|
Tagged c4d, dataset, enlighten, eprints, rcuk, research themes, theme, topic
|
6 Comments
RCUK Classifications Used in Data Registry at University of Glasgow
Posted on January 25, 2013 by Valerie
We’ve used the RCUK classifications and code we created for the ‘Engage’ project in our data registry which we have just made live at the University of Glasgow.
Read more at:
http://cerif4datasets.wordpress.com/2013/01/25/university-of-glasgow-registry-live/
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Leave a comment
University of Glasgow Update
Posted on October 23, 2012 by Valerie
After discussion with our VP for Research and Enterprise and representatives from our Corporate Communications (web) team we are proceeding with some work running a few of the ‘research clusters’ in the University of Glasgow through the software tools developed during Engage to see how this portrays the research activity of each.
Will update this blog with progress.
Last week we provided some materials about Engage and Encapsulate at the final workshops for:
IRIOS2 http://irios2.wordpress.com/
Cerif In Action http://cerifinaction.wordpress.com/
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Tagged cerifinaction, encapsulate, irios2
|
1 Comment
Final Project Documentation
Posted on September 20, 2012 by Valerie
Hello All,
Here is our final project report.  The primary audience is University of Glasgow services and senior management however I thought it might be of use to other organisations.
http://eprints.gla.ac.uk/69724/
The project has now come to an end however I do intend to publish one or two more blog posts to update the community on what is decided at the University of Glasgow.
We are interested to hear others views and what they are doing with research classification so feel free to comment below or email me direct at valerie.mccutcheon@glasgow.ac.uk
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Tagged cluster, rcuk, research themes
|
6 Comments
Finding Collaborators
Posted on September 12, 2012 by Valerie
Further linkage found with our IRIOS2 project.  The IRIOS2 demonstrator includes functionality to find potential collaborators by searching for projects with specific topics (e.g. RCUK classification).  The demonstrator includes a correspondence system to allow staff to invite interest in collaborations.
http://irios2.wordpress.com/
Posted in News from the Sector
|
Tagged irios2
|
Leave a comment
Workshop Report
Posted on September 10, 2012 by Valerie
Here is the final version of the report from our workshop looking at ‘research themes’.
Research_Clusters_Workshop_Report_final
Our final report for the project will be available on this blog in the next few weeks.
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Leave a comment
← Older posts
Blogroll
Dataset Management Project
Get Support
Learn WordPress.com
Research Outcomes
Fellow JISC Business Intelligence Projects
BIRD – Business Intelligence Reporting Dashboard
Bolt-CAP
Bringing Corporate Data to Life
Business Intelligence for Learning About Our Students
Enabling Benchmarking Excellence
IN-GRiD
Liverpool University Management Information System (LUMIS)
RETAIN: Retaining Students Through Intelligent Interventions
Supporting institutional decision making with an intelligent student engagement tracking system
Visualisation of Research Strength (VoRS)
Subscribe to our blog
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 8 other followers
Tags#ambash
archi
archimate
ARMA
c4d
casrai
CERIF
cerif in action
cerifinaction
cluster
community engagement
data
data management
dataset
Elsevier
encapsulate
Engage
enlighten
eprints
feedback
Glasgow
HR
impact
industry
industry code
irios2
jisc
JISC BCE
Julie Allinson
library
map
metadata
mice
Microsoft Academic
NERC
OR2012
Patrick McSweeney
prototype
rcuk
RCUK Outcomes
REF
Research Gateway
research methodology
research outputs
ResearchRevealed
research system
research themes
scottish enterprise
SFC
sic
Smartsimple
sme
snowball
tagging
theme
Thomson Reuters
topic
visualisation
Wellcome
workshopArchives
February 2013
January 2013
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
Research Clusters
Blog at WordPress.com.
Research Clusters
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
