Enhanced Tagging
for Discovery (EnTag) | Home Page
UKOLN
Raising Awareness
Home
A-Z of projects and activities
About UKOLN
Contact UKOLN
Accessibility
News RSS
"A centre of excellence in digital information management, providing
advice and services to the library, information and cultural heritage
communities."
UKOLN is based at the University
of Bath.
Related Links
Project Home Page
Demonstrators
Documentation
Related work
Results and dissemination
Enhanced Tagging
for Discovery (EnTag)
Background
This project was a JISC-funded project which ran from 1 September 2007 to 31 August
2008. Further information is available
on the
JISC Web site.
Overview
The Enhanced Tagging for Discovery project investigated the combination
and comparison of controlled and folksonomy approaches to support resource
discovery in repositories and digital collections. The project evaluated
the combination of both approaches in the context of repositories and
digital collections, attempting to get the best of both worlds.
The specific aim was to investigate whether vocabulary control and
the use of an established KOS can assist in moving free social tagging
beyond personal bookmarking to aid resource discovery in context of
the JISC Information Environment and eFramework. The project demonstrated
use of tagging in different environments and provided an interface that
enables use of a traditional classification scheme to enhance free form
tags. The project considered issues such as whether prompting with controlled
terminology is beneficial.
The project has now been successfully completed. Please visit the Documentation
page for project reports and the Results and
dissemination page for publications. The main demonstrator is also
available (see Demonstrators).
Lead Institution
UKOLN at the University of Bath
UKOLN staff who worked on this project were Koralijke Golub and Michael Day.
Project partners
University of Glamorgan, Hypermedia Research Unit:
http://hypermedia.research.glam.ac.uk/
Intute (MIMAS at The University of Manchester):
http://www.intute.ac.uk
Science and Technology Facilities Council, The Rutherford Appleton Laboratory:
http://www.scitech.ac.uk/About/Struc/Locs/RAL/facs.aspx
Non-funded supporting partners
OCLC Office of Research, USA: http://www.oclc.org/
Danish Royal School of Library and Information Science: http://www.db.dk/english/
Archive of project Web site
An archive
of the project Web site
is available on the Internet Archive.
On 21 March 2013 the project Web site had been crawled 19 times, dating back to 11 June 2008.
|
|
University of Bath
UKOLN receives support from
the University of Bath where it is based.
Page last revised on:
17-Apr-2013
