National Union of Students
NUS
close
menu
Search NUS Website
Search
Who We Are
▼
What We Do
Our History
Our Successes
Leadership
How We Work
Friends of NUS
Work For Us
Take Action
▼
Education
Welfare and student rights
Liberation
Sustainability
News
▼
Press Releases
Research Publications
Policy Responses
Student Journalists
NUS extra
▼
Buy a card
About the card
FAQ
View all discounts
Apprentice extra
Become a partner
International Discounts
NUS extra blog
Advice
Lifestyle
Students' Unions
Hi, You're not registered Sign in or Register
close
Sign-in Form
Sign In
Cardholders and registered members
Email address:
Password:
Reset password
Remember me?
Not a member?
Non members and new visitors
Register now to make your voice heard. Join 1000's of other students and join the NUS.
Join now
Buy your NUS extra card now
Street style, #mystyle. Wear it. Own it. Save
Win Hidden Figures merchandise!
We're giving you a chance to win one of three copies of the official Hidden Figures soundtrack produced by Pharrell Williams and one of three copies of the Hidden Figures novel by Margot Lee Shetterly.
Boycott the National Student Survey
Join our campaign to take on the Teaching Excellence Framework
Student discounts with NUS extra
A year's worth of savings on all the things you love!
Buy your NUS extra card now
Latest discounts, offers, competitionsView all
10% discount at The Co-op
10% discount at The Co-opFind out more
25% off at National Express
25% off at National ExpressFind out more
25% off student ticket prices at ODEON
25% off student ticket prices at ODEONFind out more
50% off Spotify Premium packages
50% off Spotify Premium packagesFind out more
Amazon Student Membership
Amazon Student MembershipFind out more
12% off 1-Year 16-25 Railcards
12% off 1-Year 16-25 RailcardsFind out more
10% discount at Superdrug with a Health & Beautycard*
10% discount at Superdrug with a Health &...Find out more
10% off at essentials at UniBulkBuy
10% off at essentials at UniBulkBuyFind out more
Latest NewsView all
NUS implements Europe’s first Trans Officer
NUS has made the historic decision to introduce a full time Trans officer and Trans campaign.Find out more
76% of students oppose the TEF
Save the Student have released survey results showing university students' views of the controversial new Teaching Excellence Framework.Find out more
Lobby a Lord over the HE Bill
The Higher Education & Research Bill has left the House of Commons, and has moved into the House of Lords.Find out more
Students and academics demand ethical pensions
NUS joined ethical investment campaigns to call for academic pension funds to pull out of controversial weapons.Find out more
Get InvolvedView all
Send your MP a Valentine's Day card
The NUS LGBT+ Campaign is working with Terrence Higgins Trust and Student Pride to call on the government for compulsory and inclusive Sex and Relationship Education in schools.
Find out more
Stop the student loan book sell off
The government is selling off our old student loans to private companies.Companies will profit from the outstanding debts of students, starting with those who graduated between 2002 and 2006.
Theresa 'Del Boy' May and Philip 'Rodney' Hammond are getting a bad deal, selling the loans off for less than they're worth.Email your MP today and ask them to oppose the sell off.
Find out more
NUS helpline for students affected by Prevent
Since the Prevent Duty was introduced more than a year ago now, NUS has been inundated with cases and questions from students and officers. To help manage how we best support and advise issues relating to this invasive, racist policy; we are now providing a helpline which you can call confidentially.
Find out more
Find YourStudents' Union
Name of Union*
Or use our map
NUS works across the UK
While NUS represents the interest of students across the UK, we are made up of autonomous nations.
To find out more about each Nation visit their dedicated homepage:
NUS Scotland
NUS Wales
NUS-USI
Information
Site MapTerms And ConditionsPrivacy PolicyAccessibilityWork For UsContact NUSContact Commercial Services
Get extra
Any questions?
Connect with NUS
facebook Follow us on Facebooktwitter Follow us on Twitteryoutube Follow us on YouTube
Sign up for our newsletter
Keep up-to-date with the latest NUS and student news by entering your name and email address below
Name*
Email address*
All materials on this site are © National Union of Students. All rights reserved. This site is owned and operated by NUS
Built with Code Computerlove
