iha
UCL Home
Prospective students
Current students
Staff
Give
skip to navigation.
skip to content.
Institute of Healthy Ageing
UCL Home
IHA
Home
about us
events
linda partridge
principal investigators
students
IHA news
vacancies
staff intranet
MRes in Biosciences
contact us
UCL Biosciences
Follow us:
A
A
A
IHA news
Congratulations to Dr Adam Dobson on his paper in Cell Reports
Congratulatsions to Adam Dobson and Nazif Alic whose paper,
"Nutritional Programming of Lifespan by FOXO Inhibition on Sugar-Rich
Diets," has just been published in Cell Reports.
Their study
shows that a history of feeding on a high sugar-diet shortens lifespan
and changes gene expression. These changes appear to be mediated by
FoxO/Daf16 in both flies and worms More...
Published:
Jan 11, 2017 10:42:21 AM
Welcome to Matías Fuentealba
The IHA extends a warm welcome to Matías Fuentealba who joins Linda Partridge’s group this week as a PhD student. Matias recently completed his Masters in Biological Sciences at the Universidad de Chile, where his work comprised a “study of the energetics and structural characteristics of NAD and NADP binding sites through statistical potentials.” Welcome to London Matías! More...
Published:
Jan 10, 2017 11:44:35 AM
David Gems on BBC Radio 4 "Archive on 4"
On Saturday, November 26 2016 BBC Radio 4 broadcast a 1 hr programme entitled "Logan's Run and Intergenerational War", presented by Ed Howker, with extensive contributions from IHA Co-Director Professor David Gems. The programme included in depth discussion of the impact of the ageing of populations, and the prospects for treatments for ageing to improve late-life health. Among other contributors to the programme were former Universities and Science minister David Willetts and the actress Jenny Agutter.The programme is available for a short period via the BBC iPlayer at http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b083j672#play
More...
Published:
Nov 30, 2016 12:53:17 PM
View all articles
Institute of Healthy Ageing
Laboratories of the IHA (Inta Photography http://intaphotography.com)
Laboratories of the IHA (Inta Photography http://intaphotography.com)
Laboratories of the IHA (Inta Photography http://intaphotography.com)
Laboratories of the IHA (Inta Photography http://intaphotography.com)
The UCL Institute of Healthy Ageing is a world class centre of excellence
for research on the biology of ageing and ageing-related diseases.
Our primary purpose is to bring together
researchers working on the biology of ageing (biogerontology) with
those working to understand the causes of ageing-related disease. By
merging the two, we aim
to develop a new translational biogerontology using the ageing process
as a point of intervention to protect against the diseases of old age.
Our goal is to improve the health and quality of life for older people.
Page last modified on 05 nov 15 14:25
Disclaimer
Freedom of Information
Accessibility
Privacy
Cookies
Slavery statement
Contact Us
Darwin Building, University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT
Tel:
+44 (0)20 7679 4380
© UCL 1999–2017
