The Design Studio / Welcome to the Design Studio
The Design Studio
log inhelp
WikiPages & Files
View
Welcome to the Design Studio
Page history
last edited
by Marianne Sheppard 3 years, 8 months ago
The Design Studio is a developing toolkit which draws together a range of existing and emergent Jisc resources which support technology-enhanced teaching and learning practice. The Design Studio will provide access to project outcomes and outputs from a range of Jisc programmes as they are developed through an open sharing and synthesis approach.  You can access resources through interrelated programme themes or browse using the side bar menu and the folders.  You can also use the search facility using keywords or tags.  As the name suggests, resources are in various states of development - some polished, some rough-and-ready - so please bear this in mind as you use the site.
Curriculum Change and Transformation
View »
Transforming Assessment and Feedback
View »
Developing Digital Literacies
View »
**NEW*
Senior Managers Perspectives
Embedding Benefits programme
Design Studio on Youtube »
Accessing the Design Studio » About the Design Studio » Guidance for Projects »
Design Studio Feed: new content and updates »
Welcome to the Design Studio
Page Tools
Insert links
Insert links to other pages or uploaded files.
Pages
Images and files
Insert a link to a new page
Loading...
No images or files uploaded yet.
Insert image from URL
Tip: To turn text into a link, highlight the text, then click on a page or file from the list above.
Comments (0)
You don't have permission to comment on this page.
Printable version
SideBar
Home
About the Design Studio
Accessing the Design Studio
Developing Digital Literacies
Developing digital literacies in the curriculum
Developing digital literacies for digital scholars and researchers
Developing digital literacies for employability
Developing digital pioneers
Developing digitally literate institutions
Developing your digital literacies
Curriculum Change and Transformation
Curriculum Challenges
Curriculum Processess
Curriculum Technologies
Curriculum Design & Delivery programme
Curriculum Design Institutional Stories
Transforming Assessment & Feedback
Assessment & Feedback Programme
Assessment & Feedback Topics
Assessment & Feedback Tools and Resources
Embedding Benefits
About the Embedding Benefits programme
View All Tags
Recent Activity
Show 0 new items
Loading…
