MeCCSA | Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association
Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association
Skip to content
Home
News
News Archive
Newsletter
Networks
Climate Change Network
Disability Studies Network
Policy Network
Postgraduate Network
Practice Network
Race, Ethnicity and Postcolonial Network
Radio Studies Network
Social Movements Network
Women’s Media Studies Network
Conference
Next conference
Previous Conferences
Events
Responses
BBC Charter Review
HE Funding Cuts
Consultations
REF
RAE
Resources
Discussion List
Research Ethics Guidelines
FAQs
Links
Join
Individual Membership
Institutional Membership
Affiliate Membership
About
Committee
List of Members
Welcome to MeCCSA
Welcome to MeCCSA, the subject association that represents all who teach or research in Higher Education in media, communications and cultural studies, whether in arts, humanities or social sciences departments. This includes practice-based work as well as more ‘academic’ disciplines.
More about MeCCSA…
Three-D Issue 27
Three-D, issue 27 (PDF, 3.8 Mb) – Latest
In this issue:
1 Leveson revisited, and HE’s multiple fronts (Einar Thorsen)
Media Reform
2 DCMS consultation on Leveson (Steven Barnett)
3 Joining the IPSO Readers’ Advisory Panel (Kate Sang)
4 Government’s consultation and Impress (Máire Messenger Davies)
5 Leveson 2: issues and unheard evidence (Peter Jukes)
9 Local journalism under threat (John Jewell)
10 The status quo won’t do (Des Freedman)
11 BBC, the Referendum & ‘Post-truth Politics’ (Julian Petley)
Obituary
14 Gavin MacFadyen (Paul Lashmar)
Future of Higher Education
16 Pawns, chips and showing some humanity (John Downey)
17 Knowledge economy and the managerialization of humanities (Marco Benoît Carbone)
18 Mickey Mouse and the state of our field (Theodore Koulouris)
19 Restoring credibility after UCU campaign (Patricia McManus)
Turkey
21 Still Saying: We Will Not Be A Party To This Crime (Mine Gencel Bek)
22 Are citizens journalism’s last resort? (Anonymous)
MeCCSA Annual Conferences
24 MeCCSA 2017: University of Leeds (Katy Parry)
25 MeCCSA 2018: London South Bank University (Janet Jones & Philip Hammond)
Reports and Initiatives
26 Chair’s report (Natalie Fenton)
27 Letter in response to Leveson consultation
28 Report on Meeting with ESRC and AHRC (John Downey)
29 Research Excellence Framework update
30 Practice Network (Tahera Aziz, Phil Hammond & Lizzie Jackson)
31 Climate Change Network (Nathan Farrell)
32 Social Movements Network (Anna Feigenbaum, Ruth Sanz Sabido)
34 Postgraduate Network (Seema Hussain, Patricia Prieto-Blanco)
MeCCSA letter on Part 2 of the Leveson Inquiry
The Government is currently consulting about two key issues relating to the implementation of the framework for independent self-regulation of the press that was agreed by Parliament after the first stage of the Leveson Inquiry. The consultation questions whether Section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 should be commenced and if Part 2 of the Leveson Inquiry should go ahead. Whatever your views on press regulation, as teachers and researchers in the field we encourage you to make sure your concerns are heard. The Consultation ends on 10th January 2017.
MeCCSA is currently drafting a submission, which will be available on this website. Members have written extensively about Leveson, and Three-D Issue 20, Issue 24 and Issue 27 all contained a number of articles that might be of interest by way of background context.
MeCCSA will also be submitting a letter, addressed to Karen Bradley, along with our response to the DCMS consultation. We would like as many signatories as possible – please consider adding yours.
The letter was also published in the Guardian on Friday 2nd December, with the original signatories.
Studying MeCCSA subjects at University
MeCCSA has produced a film to answer some of the frequently asked questions about studying subjects in our field at University. Feel free to share and use to promote your own courses as you wish.
See also our information brochure: Studying Media, Film and Communication at University: choosing the right course for you (PDF, 268k)
…and our FAQ section.
MeCCSA letter to Turkish Minister in support of academic freedom
The below letter has today been sent by Natalie Fenton to the Turkish Minister of Education from MeCCSA in support of colleagues facing struggles over academic freedom, losing their jobs and in some cases facing imprisonment. Please consider sending your own letters of support.
The letter is also available as a PDF download.
(more…)
Response submitted by MeCCSA to the Stern Review of the Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Submitted 21st March 2016
This response is on behalf of MeCCSA (the Media, Communications and Cultural Studies Association) which is the subject association for academics and students in these fields in UK Higher Education. It draws on extensive independent research into the changing higher education environment and how it has impacted on the field of media, communications and cultural studies, and on discussion at the Association’s Executive and after consultation with members.  The research study, cited in some answers, employed both quantitative and qualitative methods to capture the personal experiences of senior academics working in the fields of media, communications and cultural studies in higher education.
You can read the full response below or download a PDF version.
You can view the original call for evidence and the final Stern review online. (more…)
MeCCSA response to HE Green Paper
Following discussion at the MeCCSA AGM of the Higher Education Green Paper, Fulfilling our Potential: Teaching Excellence, Social Mobility and Student Choice,  Peter Golding sent an official response to Alison Haines of the Higher Education Directorate on behalf of MeCCSA.
Download MeCCSA response (PDF, 0.18Mb)
MeCCSA statement on Home Office guidance from Prevent
Home Office guidance from Prevent on prevention of terrorism addresses many issues, including universities’ policy in relation to invitation of speakers onto their campuses.
The Home Office Guidance sets out the difficult task of balancing protection of open debate and freedom of expression with universities’ and student unions’ proper charitable and social responsibilities.  It says that “Higher education institutions and student unions can be challenged on whether they have given due consideration to the public benefit and associated risks notably when they, or one of their affiliated societies, invite controversial or extremist speakers to address students.” Prevent also note that “The Education (2) Act 1986 also requires higher and further education institutions to maintain and update a code of practice on the freedom of speech, setting out procedures and conduct for organising and attending meetings.”
MeCCSA is concerned at the varied implementation and interpretation of these proposals. Our view is that the ability to question provocative or contentious speakers is a necessary part of the culture of vigorous debate that should be essential at any university. In our fields this is intensified because many members are engaged, among other things, in teaching about news and journalism,  and the ability to invite in speakers from all sides of a debate, and to subject them to critical interview or questioning,  is essential to student  learning about ethical and responsible reporting.  It is also vital that understanding of the sources and journalistic construction of a very wide range of views and opinions forms part of the student pedagogic experience, as well as being a necessary tool for the intelligent and informed citizen of a democracy.
Most universities are aware of the dilemma this poses, and have drawn up policy positions (or a Code as prescribed above) to make clear their institutional approach to such matters. We seek to ensure such Codes are well drafted and consistent between institutions, and we are actively involved in working toward such ends.
This issue will be discussed at the AGM during the Annual conference in January 2016.
Statement of Research Ethics Guidelines
In view of the wide diversity of disciplinary orientation, methodological approach, and conceptual foundation of research in our field, MeCCSA does not publish a detailed code of research practice. Instead MeCCSA has published a statement that outlines a broad set of principles and links to a range of research practice guidelines from various associations, which we believe may be of value in the conduct of members’ research.
You can read more about the background to this initiative in Peter Golding’s article in Three-D Issue 15 [PDF], and also in Martin Barker’s article in Three-D Issue 10 [PDF].
MeCCSA supports Media Reform initiative
At the recent AGM at the University of Bedfordshire, 12th January 2012, the following resolution was passed:
This AGM supports the initiative of the Coordinating Committee for Media Reform in its submission to Leveson, and further public forums, as a proper and fruitful stimulus to well-informed debate.
(more…)
Communications
MeCCSA on JISCmail
MeCCSA and its Networks operate discussion and information lists through the JISCmail system. Click the following links for information or to join:
MeCCSA
MeCCSA Climate Change Network
MeCCSA Disability Studies Network
MeCCSA Policy Network
MeCCSA Postgraduate Network
MeCCSA Social Movements Network List
MeCCSA Women’s Media Studies Network
The MeCCSA Radio Studies Network encourages interested colleagues to subscribe to the Radio Studies list, a forum for teachers, researchers and broadcasters active since 1998.
Website contacts
Comments and suggestions to Einar Thorsen
© MeCCSA 2002-2016
Search for:
Connect with MeCCSAView MeCCSA.UK’s profile on FacebookView MeCCSA2017’s profile on TwitterView UCDsXEQ2O-VUn0xm09_pa-IQ’s profile on YouTube
Latest News
Annual General Meeting 2017
Response submitted by MeCCSA to the DCMS consultation on the Leveson inquiry and its implementation
Three-D Issue 27
Studying MeCCSA subjects at University
QAA publishes subject benchmark statement
More...
Responses
Response submitted by MeCCSA to the DCMS consultation on the Leveson inquiry and its implementation
MeCCSA letter on Part 2 of the Leveson Inquiry
MeCCSA letter to Turkish Minister in support of academic freedom
Response submitted by MeCCSA to the Better use of data in government public consultation
Response submitted by MeCCSA to the Stern Review of the Research Excellence Framework (REF)
More...
MeCCSA Newsletter
Three-D, issue 27 (PDF | HTML
Join
Become a member of MeCCSA
Contact MeCCSA
List of principal MeCCSA contacts
© 2017, Media Communications & Cultural Studies Association
Log in
Site map
