Digital Media services
Close
UCL Home
Prospective students
Current students
Staff
Give
UCL Information Services Division
Home
Home
Our services
How to guides
About ISD
Help & Support
News
UCL Home
ISD
Our services
Digital Media services
Digital Media Services
We support UCL by providing design, photographic, digitisation and video production for use in teaching and learning, promotion, PR, and research.
Our aim is to provide services of the highest quality at an affordable
cost, without compromising creativity.
Offering extensive expertise in creating and delivering all forms of
media content using the various methods available: publications,
presentations, audio podcasts, slideshows, videos, and online materials.
The UCL Digital Media team are based in the Cruciform
The team provides digital and creative media services to all of UCL, including graphic design, photography, video, digitisation, illustration, poster and large format print.
What we offer
Design
We specialise in providing materials used to educate, inform and
persuade e.g. advertisements, flyers, brochures, annual reports, promotional
items, presentation material, direct mail and similar.
Professionally
designed work attracts far more attention and the
team advises on usage of the UCL visual identity in publications so that
it is used appropriately across all printed and
electronic materials. Where appropriate, the team will advise and create
corporate branding, logo and identity design for UCL academic departments,
research projects and Professional Services teams.
Design for web is an aspect to the work undertaken where we work
for many UCL Departments in collaboration with web developers in the ISD Web
& Mobile team, creating websites that conform to the style guide, keeping a
degree of uniformity, whilst providing originality.
More about Design Services
Media production
We make films to present the University’s teaching, research and
PR activities to a global audience and have a great deal of experience in
producing material for teaching, research and for promotional purposes. We
capture important events that occur across UCL in the form of lectures,
visiting dignitaries, cultural and newsworthy events.
Work is recorded either on location or in the studio and edited to
a broadcast-standard High Definition format before being converted for mainly
online publication through UCL chosen delivery channels such as UCLTV on
YouTube, SoundCloud and streamed through UCL websites. Events such as Lunch
Hour lectures are videoed and streamed live to an ever increasing audience.
We also provide services such as audio capture, video editing,
encoding and duplication. The team will work whenever and wherever necessary in
making recordings.
More about Media production services
Photography
The increasing need to add visually stimulating and informative
material to UCL websites, blogs and portals requires constant flow of new
imagery produced in high quality. The photographer’s day is spent covering all
aspects of UCL activities photographing people in their working environment,
which includes experiments, labs, offices, workshops, works of art, museum
objects and specimens.
Throughout the year requests are made for undertaking
photography of the UCL estate, capturing the architectural changes of both
interiors and exteriors also staff and student group and portrait photographs.
The area of business growth over the last few years has been in the
Digitisation and Scanning of UCL held material especially from Library –
Special Collections and UCL Museums.
The photographic team manages and populates UCL Imagestore.
More about photography services
Poster production & printing
Our large-format poster printing & lamination service is
offered in print sizes from A4 to oversize A0 and are of photographic quality. We
supply Pop up banners and display signage and we are now branching out into the
field of Digital wallpaper using a low tack non-destructive substrate.
More about poster production
Help & Self-service resources
Further help
UCL Imagestore how to guides
Further help
Contact Digital Media Services team
About the UCL Digital Media team and related information
Service charges
All services are offered at competitive rates, this covers
all direct costs and contributes towards keeping our equipment and running costs to a
minimum. Customers must provide us with a University eIDT charge code for all
our services. External customers can pay via invoice and by providing a purchase order. We also take credit and debit card payments for personal or non UCL Academic Posters.
Additional creative services at UCL are offered by:
The ISD IT for SLMS Medical Illustration team - Health Creatives
Located on two sites, The Royal Free and Great Ormond Street Hospitals, the Health Creatives team offer a variety of photographic, video, design and printing services for the UCL School of Life and Medical Sciences (SLMS). The team also provide their services to external health related companies and professionals. Details about their range of services are held on the IT for SLMS website and for external to UCL customers at Health Creatives.
The UCL Communications team - Corporate Design
Design and produce UCL's core corporate publications, as well as UCL's core communication campaigns. The team work alongside the UCL Brand Manager to manage and implement the UCL Visual Identity guidelines, UCL logos and templates. Details of corporate design services
The UCL Publications and Marketing team - Student Recruitment
Update and maintain UCL's three flagship student recruitment publications in their printed and online incarnations: the UCL Undergraduate Prospectus, the UCL Graduate Prospectus and the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Details of the CAM team
About ISD
News
Who we are
Projects & developments
Governance
Find us
Twitter
Getting Help
Search how to guides
Contact the Service Desk
Related Websites
UCL Computing Regulations
Information Security
Research IT Services
ISD Staff
ISD intranet
University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT
+44 (0)20 7679 2000
Copyright © 2017 UCL
Disclaimer
Freedom of Information
Accessibility
Privacy
Cookies
Slavery statement
Contact Us
