The Wainwright Society :: for lovers of the fells and the Lake District
News and updates
Joining The Wainwright Society - if you join the Society on or after 1st July 2017, you will receive membership until the end of 2018.
Find out more about ways to apply for membership of The Wainwright Society by clicking here .....
The 2016 Photographic Competition can be found here more...
The Wainwright Society announces its main beneficiary for 2017 The Wainwright Society has chosen Fix the Fells, the body that repairs upland paths in the Lake District as the main beneficiary of its fundraising during 2017 more...
2017 Annual General Meeting - The Annual General Meeting of the Society will be held on Saturday 25 march 2017 at Staveley Village Hall at 3pm more...
National Grid Final Consultation The Society submitted its response to the final proposals by National Grid for the construction of an electrical connection from the new nuclear power station at Moorside, Cumbria …more
Our 2016 Challenge Book ‘Wainwright’s Central Fells’ is now available. The book includes walks undertaken by members as part of the Challenge to over 80 locations and includes members' photographs and walk reports. This is a limited edition of 200 copies only; click here for more details.
The Wainwright Society Calendar is now available to order. The price is once again £10.00 including post and packaging for buyers in the UK, EC and US and Canada with all profits going to our main beneficiary, Calvert Trust. For more details and to order....
Encounters with Wainwright - We are delighted to announce the publication of Encounters with Wainwright, which has been compiled and edited by David Johnson, our Footsteps editor, following more than two years of intensive research. click here for full details and how to order this book.
The 2016 Wainwright Memorial Lecture - Richard Else delivered a fascinating and thought-provoking lecture to a near sell-out audience at the Rheged Centre more...
The 2017 Challenge: The Far Eastern Fells Anniversary Challenge: This coming year is the 60th anniversary of the publication of The Far Eastern Fells and, to celebrate this event, the Society’s annual Challenge is set in this quieter corner of Lakeland …more
The 2016 Wainwright Exhibition at Keswick Museum and Art Gallery. The award-winning 2015 Wainwright Exhibition held at Keswick Museum was a resounding success and is being repeated this year. The exhibition has the same title as in 2015, A Love Letter to the Fells, and includes many of the exhibits and features as before, but with a number of additions. The exhibition, which will run to 4 January 2017, is a ‘must-see’ for anyone interested in Wainwright and his work. Further information can be found at www.keswickmuseum.org.uk
Diversion of the Coast to Coast route at Catterick - From 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 there will be a variation to the Coast to Coast route west of Catterick Bridge whilst major road works are in operation on the A1. During this time, the footpath passing underneath the A1 will be closed …
Wainwright Society Weekend at Keswick Museum. On Saturday and Sunday, 15-16th October, the Society will have a stand at the Wainwright Exhibition at Keswick Museum. Members willing to share in representing the Society for an hour or two on either day in this worthwhile and enjoyable task should contact David Johnson footsteps@wainwright.org.uk
Coast to Coast National Trail Campaign - The Wainwright Society is supporting a new campaign to have the Coast to Coast Walk upgraded to National Trail status... More
Society AGM - Sat 19 March 2016 - Forty-nine members attended the thirteenth Annual General Meeting of The Wainwright Society on Saturday 19 March 2016 more..... click here
The Wainwright Society announces its main beneficiary for 2016 The Wainwright Society is delighted to announce that the Lake District Calvert Trust, based in Little Crosthwaite, near Keswick, will be the main beneficiary of funds raised by the Society in 2016 … more
Our 2015 Challenge Book ‘The Tarns and Waterfalls of Lakeland is now available. The book includes walks undertaken by members as part of the Challenge to over 80 locations and includes AW’s drawings and members photographs and walk reports. This is a limited edition of 200 copies only;
click here for more details.
The 2015 Wainwright Memorial Lecture: : Over 220 people gathered at the Rheged Centre on Saturday 17th October eager to listen to Terry Abraham deliver the 13th Wainwright Memorial Lecture.....
more
The Wainwright Society Calendar 2016 is now available to order, but is expected to sell out soon. The price once again is £10.00 including post and packing and all profits go to our main beneficiaries, Animal Rescue Cumbria and Lake District Mountain Rescue Search Dogs association. For more details and to order click here .....
An online Petition to the Government to have a footbridge installed on the A19 at Ingleby Arncliffe on the route of the Coast to Coast Walk has been set up by a local farmer....
more
Order Form for The Society’s 2015 Party on October 16th at Wilf’s, Staveley. We are now taking orders for tickets for this event which is being held the evening before the Memorial lecture. To download an Order Form for the Party please click here. Tickets will be available on a first come first served basis. ... more
Charity Challenge money donated to ARC and LDMRSDA Two cheques of £750 were presented to the Society’s beneficiaries for 2015 at High Sweden Bridge on 23rd May more...
Completers Certificates are now available to members who have undertaken the walks in AW’s Walks in Limestone Country, Walks on the Howgill Fells or have completed the Coast to Coast Walk. These are in addition to the existing certificates for those who have completed the 214 fells or have climbed the fells in The Outlying Fells of Lakeland. Also available are badges for 214 and Outlying Fells Completers. Before applying for these certificates or badges, members must have submitted their completion details for inclusion on the respective Completion Register(s). Click here for full information.
Animal Rescue Cumbria: Society Members’ Open Day, 24 May 2015Animal Rescue Cumbria: Society Members’ Open Day, 24 May 2015 This year is the 30th anniversary of the acquisition by Animal Rescue Cumbria (ARC) of the property at Grayrigg near Kendal, known as ‘Kapellan’. There will be a special open day at Kapellan on Sunday 24 May from 2.00-4.00 pm for members of the Wainwright Society ... more
Society AGM – Sat 28 March 2015 - Fifty-eight members attended the twelfth Annual General Meeting of The Wainwright Society on Saturday 28 March 2015.. more
The Thwaites Wainwright Book Prize 2015: A 6-book shortlist was announced at an evening reception at Stanfords bookshop in London on 26th March. A short film of the event can be seen here www.youtube.com/wainwrightchannel The winner will be announced at the same venue on 22 April. A report will be included in the Summer issue of Footsteps.
The 2014 Photographic
Competition: Twenty Society members submitted a
total of 71 images for the 2014 Photographic Competition, which was, once
again, judged by photographer, Derry Brabbs ..... more
The Wainwright Society announces its main beneficiary
for 2015 - The Wainwright Society is delighted to announce that there will be
two main beneficiaries of funds raised by the Society in 2015: namely, Animal
Rescue Cumbria (ARC) and the Lake District Mountain Rescue Search Dogs
Association (LDMRSDA) ..... more
The
’Ridgewalk Books 1-3 Challenge 2014’ Book is now published with all ridge
walks in AW’s Pictorial Guides Books
1-3 described in words and photographs from the participants in the Challenge. This is a limited edition of 200 copies
only.....more
Guidebook Pouches:
New for 2014, we are offering Guidebook Pouches
especially manufactured for us, embroidered with the Society logo and made from
hard-wearing Cordura.....
more
The Wainwright Society and Gift Your Gear:
The Wainwright Society is teaming up with the Gift Your Gear project which is an award-winning nationwide initiative that encourages people to donate unwanted outdoor clothing and equipment to UK community organisations, youth groups and charities working with young people in the outdoors. For more details of how to donate click here
Alison O’Neill, ‘The Barefoot Shepherdess’ A report of the 2014 Wainwright Memorial Lecture
can be read here
An evening with Wainwright: John Burland, the founder of the Wainwright Society,
has written and devised a dramatic presentation of the life and works of AW..... more
Encounters with Wainwright - The Wainwright Society has launched a
project, Encounters with Wainwright, to record the memories and
impressions of Alfred Wainwright by anyone who knew or met him .... more
Coast to Coast amendments to the route - following discussions with the various local authorities, amendments to the Coast to Coast route have been agreed with The Wainwright Society .... more
There was a special presentation to Peter Linney, retired Society Secretary at the 2013 Memorial Lecture, held at Rheged on 28th September.
Peter was the first Secretary of the Society ..... more
McNeish on Wainwright - Alfred Wainwright: Genius? Cameron McNeish, an Honorary Member of the Society has written a fascinating article about Alfred Wainwright.
In it, he recalls Wainwright’s relationship with television producers and presenters, his character and the qualities that made him what he was to many people: a genius.
Read the full article here
New Coast to Coast information board unveiled at Robin Hood’s Bay - a new Coast to Coast information board was unveiled at Robin Hood’s Bay by Peter Linney, retired Secretary of The Wainwright Society on Saturday 7th September ..... more
Society Clothing range for 2013 - we have updated the clothing range that we had last year and the new range has the Society logo embroidered. To see more details
click here ......
Wainwright Society member Andy Beck is nearing the end of a five-year painting marathon. He is painting a watercolour version of every single sketch in Alfred Wainwright's seven Pictorial Guides to the Lakeland Fells. He now has about 60 ......... more
How to Stay Safe and Enjoy the Fells - LDSAMR have released
a safety leaflet intended to help people make the right safety choices before going
into the hills .......
