Maesyffin Mushrooms - Organic Exotic Mushroom Grower
DRIED RED REISHI (ANTLER FORM)      DRIED TRAMETES (TURKEY TAIL)
DRIED SHIITAKE      DRIED
LION'S MANE      SHIITAKE
PATE      FRUITING
BLOCKS      EXTRACTS      LINKS      BOOKS      GALLERY
Maesyffin
Mushrooms, Maesymeillion, Llandysul, Ceredigion, Wales, SA44 4NG.
tel: 0845 4581258 / 01545 590467         e-mail:
enquiries@maesymush.co.uk
Maesyffin Mushrooms have been growing their
award-winning organic Shiitake mushrooms in
rural West Wales since 2003, in a system originally developed
by Humungus Fungus. The entire
process is certified as organic by the UK Soil
Association.
These days we also grow Lion's Mane,
Reishi and Trametes
mushrooms - all organically of course.
Our fresh mushrooms are sold through local
retailers, and are used in local
hotels and restaurants.
The True
Taste judges said they were excellent quality"
and had "a good shiitake taste",
as well as "Woody - good flavours - great raw and
cooked".
Featured
in Channel 4 TV's Secret Supper Club - 'Harbour'
Read
feature in Great British Food magazine, (PDF file)
Read
case study in "Small Is Succesful" report, (PDF
file)
And
the Winner is
TRUE TASTE of WALES
Food & Drink Awards 2010/11
On November 11th 2010 Maesyffin Mushrooms'
Fresh Organic Shiitake Mushrooms won a Gold
True Taste Speciality Product award and Bronze
in the Organic Product category to add to their
2008 True Taste Speciality Product (Healthy Options) Winner's
award and Commended awards for 2006 and 2007.
Click
here to see Maesyffin Mushrooms at the True Taste Wales
Awards 2008
SUSTAINABILITY - At Maesyffin
Mushrooms we grow all our mushrooms organically (certified by
The Soil Association),
using locally-sourced materials wherever possible. Which means
that we grow our spawn on locally-grown organic grains, and our
mushrooms on wood chip we have made ourselves from local hardwood
'brash' (tree trimmings and hedge cuttings which would otherwise
just be burned in the field). Our sawdust is mainly oak and is
a waste product from local woodcrafting workshops. The organic
bran we use is produced at Felin
Ganol water mill at Llanrhystud. Our electricity is 100% green
energy from Ecotricity
and local deliveries are powered by self-made biodiesel from locally-sourced
used cooking oil.
NUTRITION
Shiitake are a good source of protein,
potassium, phosphorus and
vitamins as well as selenium & zinc and
other essential trace elements. They also contain all
the essential amino acids.
Click here for more details
Culinary Uses
Shiitake is very popular in China and Japan, where the majority
of the world’s shiitake are grown and consumed.
It is a leading source of the Umami
(or "deliciousness") Taste,
especially when dried.
Shiitake works well with red meats in particular, but also
chicken and other meats, vegetables and eggs. The stems should be
kept as they are full of goodness and flavour and can be used for
a highly nutritious soup stock or used in pâtés or
mushroom roasts.
Shiitake can be added to casseroles, quiches, bread and other
baked items, as well as used in traditional and modern Asian recipes.
Oh, and they are great fried
slowly and served on toast. And then there's shiitake
'bacon' ... Vegetarian umami heaven!
SHIITAKE is
the second most cultivated mushroom in the world and the most popular
of the "exotic" mushrooms. Shiitake are tasty and nutrituous
and can be used in many culinary ways.
RECIPE
LINKS
Humungus
Fungus
UKTVFood
BBC
Food
Waitrose.com
BBC
Good Food
Delia
Online
Mitobi.com
UK GROWN? You may have seen this
on fresh mushrooms - but what does it mean? That the mushrooms are
grown in the UK? Well, yes. But did you know that the mushrooms
could have been grown on substrates imported from another country
- most likely China? The fruiting blocks are made on an industrial
scale - using Chinese materials & Chinese labour - and then
transported in shipping containers to the UK, where they are unloaded,
put into growing rooms and fruited to produce mushrooms.
UK grown, certainly, but UK produced???
SHIITAKE CULTIVATION
Maesyffin Mushrooms' shiitake are grown organically in Wales
using locally-sourced woodchip and sawdust substrates.
Shiitake (or Chinese Mushrooms)
have been cultivated on hardwood logs for centuries, but it can
be an unpredictable business - usually taking more than a year before
fruiting, and then only in spring and autumn if the logs are kept
in natural conditions outdoors.
Fortunately, shiitake can be grown all year round on artificial
'logs' made from wood chippings and sawdust.
The sawdust comes from clean mill waste and planings, and
the chippings are made from small oak and other hardwood branches.
From inoculation to fruiting takes 8-14 weeks and each fruiting
block can produce more than one flush of mushrooms.
Once spent, the block may be broken up and used as a substrate
for growing other mushrooms, composted, or burned in wood burners
or bio-mass boilers to provide heat.
Buy a shiitake fruiting block
CONTRARY to popular belief Shiitake, like most mushrooms,
need light to grow, as well as a reasonable amount of humidity
and temperature to grow in abundance.
‘The
quality of your mushrooms - we used them for Sushi - was absolutely
outstanding. I haven't found a quality like this in any supermarket
or organic food store since!’
Chris
K (Germany)
‘Your
dried shiitake
are delicious!
Sally W (Manchester)
‘Working
my way through the mushrooms I bought ... delicious. I will
be in touch for more as soon as they run out.
Gary (Cornwall)
DRIED ORGANIC SHIITAKE
Dried Baby Shiitake
25g
£2.80
BUY
50g
£5.35
BUY
100g
£10.20
BUY
200g
£19.20
BUY
Dried Whole Shiitake
25g
£2.80
BUY
50g
£5.35
BUY
100g
£10.20
BUY
200g
£19.20
BUY
Dried Sliced Shiitake
25g
£3.00
BUY
50g
£5.75
BUY
100g
£11.00
BUY
200g
£21.00
BUY
DID YOU KNOW?
It takes around 1kg of fresh shiitake to produce 100g of dried shiitake.
Dried Shiitake can be reconstituted by soaking them
in hot water
for 20-30 minutes. Or try them as they are for an instant savoury
snack!
One cup of dried mushrooms soaked with one cup of boiling
water produces around one and a half cups of mushrooms.
A word about packaging: Our fresh
mushrooms are sold in brown paper bags, never in plastic boxes!
Our dried mushrooms are packed in either cellophane or plastic bags.
Shiitake pate is in recyclable glass jars. Any carrier bags used
are biodegradable. Wherever practical, recyled packing materials
are used for posting out orders (for example fruiting blocks) -
this helps reduce both waste and costs.
ORGANIC SHIITAKE PÂTÉ
A smooth pâté containing at least 33% organic
shiitake mushrooms. Nut,
gluten, animal and yeast-free. Suitable for vegans and vegetarians.
100g jars
of nut, gluten, animal & yeast-free pâté made with
award-winning organically-grown shiitake mushrooms.
Sealed and cooked in the jar for an ambient shelf-life is at least
10 months .
Available by mail order as well as from local retail outlets.
Wholesale enquiries welcome.
Organic Shiitake Pate
1 jar
£2.20
BUY
2 jars
£4.15
BUY
3 jars
£6.10
BUY
6 jars
£11.00
BUY
WHAT'S IN IT? Dried shiitake
(33%), red lentils, onion, carrot, sunflower seeds, brown
rice flour, sunflower oil, sea salt*, lemon juice, garlic,
pepper, celery seeds,
thyme, parsley, palm oil, maltodextrin, mace, turmeric,
bay leaf, lovage (all organically-produced, except*)
FRESH SHIITAKE are available by post
- please get in touch for prices and availability.
ORGANIC SHIITAKE FRUITING BLOCKS
Pick your own fresh shiitake mushrooms from an organically-produced
“Fruiting Block”. Each block is pre-inoculated
with spawn and has been incubated for between 8 and 12 weeks until
it is on the point of producing its first crop of tasty shiitake
mushrooms.
After a little resting, your block can continue producing
more mushrooms over the next few months.
Shiitake Fruiting Blocks
Sorry, currently unavailable
Blocks are only available for
sale to UK addresses.
IF YOU ARE ORDERING FRUITING BLOCKS, PLEASE CHOOSE
EITHER 1st CLASS or PARCELFORCE48 AS YOUR SHIPPING OPTION IN
THE SHOPPING CART. Blocks will not be sent by 2nd Class post.
*Each block weighs around 1.7kg, which
is why P&P is expensive.
INTERESTING. EDUCATIONAL. DELICIOUS!
Grow your own shiitake mushrooms at home from
one of our ready-to-grow fruiting blocks. These are the same
blocks we grow our own fresh shiitake from. Instructions included.
Please be aware that blocks will
need to be opened within 3 days of despatch as mushrooms will be
triggered to grow by the movement of being shipped. Please bear
this in mind if you are ordering a block as a gift.
DRIED ORGANIC LION'S MANE MUSHROOM
(Hericium erinaceous)
Our organic Lion's Mane mushrooms are grown
on locally-sourced hardwood substrates supplemented with organic
bran.
Lion's Mane is a bearded
tooth mushroom which grows in the UK on dead trees and is now
legally protected from collection in the wild.
Thankfully, it can be cultivated, as it makes a tasty culinary
treat - said to taste like lobster when cooked in butter. It also
has a high protein content, contains a variety of polysaccharides
and Vitamin D2.
Available as both dried mushrooms and powder-filled capsules.
Apologies - Dried Lion's Mane is currently
out of stock (probably until May/June).
Lion's Mane Capsules
50
£12.00
BUY
100
£23.00
BUY
Vegetarian size 0 capsules
containing an average of 400mg pure, organically-grown, dried Lion's
Mane mushroom powder per capsule.
DRIED ORGANIC REISHI MUSHROOM
(Ganoderma lucidum)
Our organic Reishi mushrooms
are grown on locally-sourced hardwood substrates supplemented with
organic bran. They are slow-growing, typically taking at least 6
months to reach maturity.
Dried Antler Reishi
10g
£7.00
BUY
20g
£13.30
BUY
40g
£25.20
BUY
60g
£35.70
BUY
NEW FOR 2016 - RED REISHI 'ANTLERS'
Reishi is a hard, woody mushroom, and has been
used for millenia in the Far East. It is often ground
and taken as teas, tinctures and capsules, or mixed with coffee.
This variation of Red Reishi is known as 'Antler Form' and
is grown organically by Maesyffin Mushrooms.
DRIED ORGANIC 'TURKEY TAIL' MUSHROOM
(Trametes versicolor)
Turkey Tail is a tough, fibrous, mushroom
which is often used for teas and tinctures.
Grown on Alder logs sustainably harvested from a nearby organic farm,
Trametes versicolor is often called 'Turkey Tail' as it resembles
the fanned out tail of a turkey.
Dried Turkey Tails
25g
£6.25
BUY
50g
£11.90
BUY
100g
£21.25
BUY
200g
£40.00
BUY
ORGANIC MUSHROOM EXTRACTS
SHIITAKE MUSHROOM
EXTRACT
Shiitake mushrooms remain in the vanguard of beneficial mushrooms
and their safety is well established, given the popularity
of this culinary favourite.
Maesyffin Mushrooms' organic
shiitake are used in Fruiting
Bodies' organic mushroom extracts.
You can find much more information about
the properties of the various mushrooms used in the extracts
by searching the Internet or by finding appropriate books
and other reference material.
These organic mushroom extracts (made & sold by
Fruiting
Bodies) are produced using only the dried fungus, alcohol and
water.
FRUITING
BODIES' range of organic mushroom extracts is based
on single species or blends of complementary fungi.
LINKS
Fresh shiitake keep well
in a paper bag in the fridge.
Dried shiitake have a very long shelf-life
and
a more concentrated, smoky flavour.
Wild Shiitake only grow in Asia, so
any shiitake in 'Wild Mushroom' mixes are either imported
or cultivated.
LOCAL
RETAILERS include:
• Llwynhelyg
Farm Shop, Sarnau
• Aardvark
Wholefoods, Carmarthen
• Go
Mango Wholefoods, Cardigan
• The
Treehouse, Aberystwyth
• Dion's, Aberaeron
• The
Mulberry Bush, Lampeter
• The
Organic Fresh Food Co., Lampeter
• Glebelands
Market Garden, St Dogmaels
MARKETS
•
People's Market, Victoria Hall, Lampeter 2nd & 4th Saturdays
HOTELS & RESTAURANTS
• Falcondale
Mansion Hotel, Lampeter
• The
Daffodil, Penrhiwllan
• Bwyty
Manuka, Aberaeron
USEFUL LINKS
• Fruiting
Bodies - Mushroom Extracts
• The
Soil Association - UK Organic Certification
• True
Taste Of Wales - Food Awards
• Free
Range Review - find more local food
• Big
Barn
- reconnecting customers with local producers
• Big
Food Map - We're on C4's Big Food Map!
• The
Green Guide - the directory for planet-friendly living
• Fungi
Perfecti - Paul Stamet's pioneering company
• Fungi
Futures
- Recycling Coffee into Mushrooms!
• Shiitake
(Wikipedia) • Shiitake
(Google)
• Lion's
Mane (Wikipedia)• Lion's
Mane (Google)
• Reishi
(Wikipedia) • Reishi
(Google)
• Nutritional
Properties Of Mushrooms - informative article
Some further reading ...
Like to know more..?
Mushroom Feasts: 100 Fabulous Dishes Making the Most of Wild
and Bought Mushrooms Steven Wheeler
This delightfully illustrated book opens with an introduction
that covers the culinary qualities of over 30 wild and cultivated
varieties of mushroom, as well as essential preparation and preserving
techniques. With over 90 suggestions on how to incorporate the morning's
harvest into hearty breakfasts, warming soups and broths, and all
manner of meat, poultry, game, fish, shellfish & vegetarian dishes
for every kind of culinary occasion.
From Another Kingdom
Royal Botanical Gardens Edinburgh
Fungi play a crucial role in supporting life on Earth, and
we humans benefit directly through an array of fungal products, including
foods and medicines. This book explores our relationship with fungi
and our complex cultural attitudes towards them. Chapters include
fungal biology, chemistry, cultivation, foraging and conservation.
There is also a recipe section.
Written for the non-specialist, and making full use of the
extraordinary diversity and beauty of fungi through stunning images,
this book provides a fascinating introduction to a group of organisms
whose lifestyle means they remain largely out of sight, overlooked
and forgotten. The reality is that there is much for which fungi should
be thanked.
The Complete Mushroom Book:
The Quiet Hunt
Antonio Carluccio
Known as "the mushroom man", Antonio Carluccio
has been collecting, cooking and devising recipes for mushrooms for
over 60 years. Here he draws on his knowledge and expertise to bring
together over 100 recipes that make the most of readily available
mushrooms.
Fascinated by Fungi
Pat O'Reilly
A great new book exploring the majesty and mystery, facts
and fantasy of the quirkiest kingdom of life on earth.
Fascinated by Fungi is an easy-to-follow introduction to a
complex and largely unexplored kingdom of life and the history, mystery,
facts and fiction born out of the fascinating foibles of mushrooms,
toadstools and other fungi.
Mushroom Cookbook: Recipes for White and Exotic Varieties
Mimi Brodeur
More than 60 great recipes with mushrooms as the main ingredient.
Information on history, varieties, and nutritional value is included.
Features recipes for appetizers, soups, sandwiches, side dishes and
entrees. Learn how to clean, store and prepare. Recipes include Mediterranean
Mushroom Bruschetta, Mushroom Vegetable Soup, Chicken Mushroom Fajitas,
Penne Mushroom Vegetable Pasta and much more.
Wild Food: A Complete Guide for Foragers
Roger Phillips
Roger Phillips is one of our leading experts on wild food
and mushrooms. He has been foraging for decades and has influenced
a generation of British chefs. Now, in this beautifully illustrated
and authoritative book, he identifies hundreds of edible plants growing
all around us, in our hedgerows, woodlands and fields, along river
banks and seashores, even on inhospitable moorland. 'I can safely
say that if I hadn't picked up this book some twenty years ago I
wouldn't have eaten as well, or even lived as well, as I have. It
inspired me then and it inspires me now' Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall.
Mushrooms:
More Than 70 Inspiring Recipes
Jacqueline Malouf
With over 70 recipes this is the complete guide to cooking
with all varieties of mushrooms - from shitake and oyster to crimini
and porcini. Mushrooms demystifies these delicious ingredients and
shows how they can be used in everything from Vegetable Tempura with
Sweet Mirin Soy Sauce, to a Wild Mushroom Open Lasagne. You'll discover
how all types of mushrooms can transform your cooking.
Peter Jordan's Wild Mushroom Bible (with Steven Wheeler)
With over 600 colour photographs, this guide introduces the
many different types of mushrooms, both edible and poisonous. In addition
to identifying and describing a variety of different mushrooms, the
book also includes valuable information such as where to collect mushrooms
and how to store them. It also offers a range of recipes from mushroom
pancakes and croissants to mushroom souffles and gravy, for anyone
looking to explore the culinary variety made possible by savoury mushrooms.
From Duff to Dinner:
A Gourmet's Guide to Mushroom Cookery, with Selected Recipes from
Master Chefs
Vince Viverito (Editor), Marjorie Young (Editor)
Mushrooms
Roger Phillips
The culmination of over thirty years' work, this authoritative
and superbly illustrated reference work is packed with the most up-to-date
information and original photographs. This book is clear, user friendly
and will appeal to a wide range of readers.
'A masterpiece of identification.' David Bellamy
DRIED SHIITAKE      DRIED
LION'S MANE      SHIITAKE
PATE      FRUITING
BLOCKS      EXTRACTS      LINKS      BOOKS      GALLERY
© Maesyffin Mushrooms 2004-2016
