Vegatopia: Promoting ethical veganism through academic research and teaching.
vegatopia_home
0
chickens
0
turkeys
0
ducks
0
pigs
0
cows
0
sheep
0
rabbits
0
Number of land-dwelling animals killed in the world by the meat, dairy
and egg industries, since you opened this webpage.
This counter does not include the billions of water-dwelling animals killed annually.
“We
can see quite plainly that our present civilisation is built on the
exploitation of animals, just as past civilisations were built on the
exploitation of slaves”
Donald Watson, Vegan Society founder, The Vegan News,
Nov 1944, No.1, p.1
“Meat
is murder. If an animal doesn't have the basic right to exist, any other rights
become meaningless”
Harriet
Schleifer, 1985, “Images of Death and Life: Food Animal Production and the
Vegetarian Option”
“The substantial power of
institutionalized animal exploitation sustains ignorance, promotes fear,
rewards cruelty, and punishes kindness.”
Brian Luke, 1992, “Justice,
Caring and Animal Liberation”
Introduction
Vegatopia is dedicated to providing a comprehensive academic resource on all things vegan.
If you are a student, researcher or teacher interested in any aspect of
veganism this is the site for you. We aim to provide you with access to as wide a range of academic resources on
veganism
as possible and hope that through the inter- and multi- disciplinary sharing of ideas, this site
will facilitate new areas of research into vegan-related issues.
We want Vegatopia to be an interactive forum for dialogue,
informing individual and collaborative research and teaching, as well as making a contribution to vegan activism and having a positive impact on veganism in a wider sense.
Vegatopia receives no financial assistance or administrative support of any kind from any external organization or individual. All of the material contained on this site, unless duly accredited, is the work of the Vegatopia founders in their spare time.
Volunteers Needed!
Vegatopia needs volunteers to help us expand and update the website. If you're vegan and have a little spare time, please contact us to find out how you can help. Please note that Vegatopia receives no funding from any source.
News
November 2014: New book launched! Our Children and Other Animals: The Cultural Construction of Human-Animal Relations in Childhood, by Matthew Cole and Kate Stewart.
Focusing on the socialization of the human use of other animals as
resources in contemporary Western society, this book explores the
cultural reproduction of human-nonhuman animal relations in childhood.
With close attention to the dominant practices through which children
encounter animals and mainstream representations of animals in
children's culture - whether in terms of the selective exposure of
children to animals as ‘pets’ or as food in the home or in school, or
the representation of animals in mass media and social media - Our
Children and Other Animals reveals the interconnectedness of studies of
childhood, culture and human-animal relations. In doing so it
establishes the importance of human-animal relations in sociology, by
describing the sociological importance of animals in children's lives
and children in animals’ lives.
Presenting a new typology of the
various kinds of human-animal relationship, this conceptually innovative
book constitutes a clear demonstration of the relevance of sociology to
the interdisciplinary field of human-animal relations and will appeal
to readers across the social sciences with interests in sociology,
childhood studies, cultural and media studies and human-animal
interaction.
What's On The Site
Click the buttons on the left of this page, or follow the hyperlinks below, to find:
Details of how to
contact us, whether you want to sign up to our research forum, share
vegan information, comment on Vegatopia, or just ask us a question.
More information about us, including our mission statement, our definition of veganism, a discussion of the theory
behind Vegatopia and more.
A news page with
information about vegan academic activities, like conference papers,
seminars, publications or courses, as well as confirmation of major website updates.
A diary with
alerts to website updates, forthcoming talks and other events.
A comprehensive
and interdisciplinary bibliography. We have archived well over
1800 references relevant to the theory and practice of veganism. The
bibliography is searchable according to keywords, such as 'activism' or  'philosophy' (you will also find a full
description and rationale of our keywords on this page).
An archive of significant media sources relevant to veganism, including print media, television and
radio broadcasts, films and music.
A set of resources for research and teaching
veganism in academia. This includes the text or notes of lectures and essays on
veganism, conference papers, a list of relevant higher education courses, and our favourite vegan-related quotations.
A research forum,
where we invite discussion of ideas for future academic work to research
and promote ethical veganism. We ask that you contact us to request access
to the research forum.
An archive of public statements on vegan matters, for instance responses to public consultations or letters to the editor in
response to relevant media stories. We invite members of our research
forum to prepare and post their own public statements to Vegatopia, either independently or in
collaboration with us.
Links to other
organizations promoting veganism, including activist groups, educational
charities and more.
We very much encourage active
participation in Vegatopia, whether by contributing original material to the website, alerting us to information and events, joining our research forum, or just asking us a question. We look forward to receiving your feedback and suggestions.
Web Design ©2008 Matthew Cole
Last updated: 01-Nov-2014
