Darrys | Carvery and Weekend Brunch Coming Soon
Home
Menus
Steak Night!
Valentines Day
Mother’s Day
Set Menu
Small Plate Classics
Large Plate Classics
Salad Dishes
Sharing Boards & Dishes
Side Dishes
Desserts
Steaks
What’s On?
Liquor Loft
Gallery
Deliveroo
Reservations
Careers
Select Page
~ Welcome to dArry’s ~
Mid summer common beef seven ways, every Sunday from noon
Make a Reservation
~ A BIT ABOUT US ~
dArry’s, first opened in 2005, is one of the finest examples of the many and glorious independent restaurants of Cambridge. We are neither beholden nor tied, we make our own way by creating fresh food daily, buying local beef and barrel ageing our own drinks weekly.
Our offer is driven by the creativity of our artisan staff, not by the food and drink developers of national brands.
In the 2016 we re invested into the C19th George Scales Brewery above our kitchen creating an amazing Liquor Loft and sun trap roof terrace.
dArry’s is proud to be independent and unique.
Come and see the old Brewery, that once served a 3rd of Cambridge’s pubs, come eat with us and drink with us. Come try our barrel aged Negroni, our unfiltered draught lager, d’Arenberg wines or our Red Pole Steaks from Midsummer Common.
Find us, hidden in the Centre of Cambridge on King Street, a 2 minute walk from the Market Square.
Please come often and bring your friends.
– dArry’s
Good menu choice – love their small dishes and sharers. All the food is tasty and portion sizes are just right. I had a burger – fantastic. Particularly nice wines and lovely atmosphere. Our waitress was really nice – good attentive service.
Princess B
- TripAdvisor
~ OUR MENU ~
Our food is essentially British, offering tastes and dishes to suit everyone’s tastes, serving everything from sandwiches, salads or our special lunchtime offer to a changing menu of starters, mains and desserts for that special night out.
We pride ourselves on using the best produce coming from specially selected sources to ensure the highest quality at all times.  We use sustainable seafood (delivered daily) and our meat and vegetables are locally sourced wherever possible.
The fish and vegetarian dish of the day depends on our fishmonger’s and grocer’s good fortune and of course the talents of our kitchen team! So keep an eye on the fireplace as these dishes can sometimes change in the middle of service!
All our puddings are home-made by our team of dedicated chefs.
Take A Look
~ OUR MENU ~
Our food is essentially British, offering tastes and dishes to suit everyone’s tastes, serving everything from sandwiches, salads or our special lunchtime offer to a changing menu of starters, mains and desserts for that special night out.
We pride ourselves on using the best produce coming from specially selected sources to ensure the highest quality at all times.  We use sustainable seafood (delivered daily) and our meat and vegetables are locally sourced wherever possible.
The fish and vegetarian dish of the day depends on our fishmonger’s and grocer’s good fortune and of course the talents of our kitchen team! So keep an eye on the fireplace as these dishes can sometimes change in the middle of service!
All our puddings are home-made by our team of dedicated chefs.
Take A Look
I will definitely be returning, both for the food and drink along with the atmosphere. The liquor loft espresso martini is a must have.
Will N
- TripAdvisor
~ LIQUOR LOFT ~
Live music, great events, open mic, amazing food, all to be had right here.
Be it day or night you can enjoy the unique atmosphere of our liquor loft.
Click below to find out more about it!
Up to the Loft!
~ LIQUOR LOFT ~
Live music, great events, open mic, amazing food, all to be had right here.
Be it day or night you can enjoy the unique atmosphere of our liquor loft.
Click below to find out more about it!
Up to the Loft!
Copyright © Darrys
2017
|
Created By OnDevs
