eggbaconchipsandbeans
eggbaconchipsandbeans
me | flickr | feed
Bruno and Italia
Ben was kind enough to buy me these two lovely drawings for my birthday; the twin pillars of my Soho life - Bar Italia and Bar Bruno (pictured before its latest revamp). They're by Eleanor Crow who does gorgeous stuff. Thanks Ben!
March 17, 2016
| Permalink
|
Comments (0)
Little Portland Cafe, Little Portland Street, W1
I wrote about the Little Portland Cafe 12 years ago on A Good Place For A Cup of Tea And A Think. They'd just had a make-over. In the intervening years they've started doing chips so now it's time for an Egg, Bacon, Chips and Beans entry. So, Look. At. That :
Absolutely gorgeous. Text book. I imagine you could draw one of those Golden Ratio things over that and prove it was in fact a renaissance painting. And you might even suggest that the egg represented the sun high above the Roman hills while the chips were the massed galleons of whoever probably invaded Rome at some point. And that, therefore, beans = Rome, bacon = sky. Obvs.
From this angle you can see pock-marking on the face of the sun which might indicate concentrations of magnetic field flux, inhibiting convection and resulting in reduced surface temperature compared to the surrounding, er, egg. So, worth watching out for.
A magnificent condiment array. All the basics, lined-up and ready to go.
This view suggests mortars, ready to pummel your taste buds. Though obviously they'd be more tactically valuable if deployed from a concealed position.
The Little Portland's interior is dominated upfront by a huge glass cabinet of delight and at the back by tables. Beyond that there's the blue hole of kitchen. Splendid.
And the exterior looks lovely now too. The pink is gone, spring is round the corner, those chairs look perfect for a sit and a think.
March 16, 2016
| Permalink
|
Comments (1)
Hightaste Cafe, Central Markets, London, EC1
As you can see, the Hightaste is the lone survivor amongst the old and interesting businesses that have nestled for years next to Smithfields Market. I presume it's still there because someone needs to feed the workers rebuilding everything round here. Cafes have a complex relationship with gentrification - they're never busier than when all the builders arrive and they're sometimes there for years, but then the dust settles and all anyone wants is an artisanal drip.
This magnificence will never go out of fashion though. Look at the crispiness of those chips - solid, sharp, structural, predictable enough for a good game of Jenga. The bacon's dark and crispy enough for a goth sandwich, the beans are textbook, the egg lies like a snowy blanket on a Malvern hillside.
No fuss with the condiments.
Same with the interiors. Chairs, tables, heater, arts, the basics.
This is fantastic place. Old school. Visit while you can.
May 25, 2015
| Permalink
|
Comments (0)
|
TrackBack (0)
Britannia Cafe, Thorntree Lane, Derby
Scavengedluxury reminded me of the Britannia Cafe so I popped in on Saturday. It is a magnificent place.
The EBCB is fantasic, doubly so on a cold Saturday morning when you've just surveyed the mess that's been made of the bus station. That egg has a look of Zaha Hadid, you could imagine a fabulously bestowed sports complex or arts centre with those proportions. The chips are big but not fat, solid but not without flamboyance, they are the Andy Carroll of chips. The beans and the bacon balance each other perfectly, happy to serve as backdrops for the other two elements, quiet, unfussy, simply present.
Textbook condiment selection and menu rest, the sauce comes in sachets, controversial for some, fair enough for me.
It's big and bountiful inside, bright and energetic. It was packed just a bit earlier but they coped happily with the crowds, swift and efficient.
And if you're lucky you can sit by the window, watch the passers by.
Nice big cup of tea too.
January 11, 2015
| Permalink
|
Comments (0)
|
TrackBack (0)
EBCB revisited
An email from a reader sent me back to Tony's. And I've started a thing. I won't cross post here, but I will put relevant updates on each location as I revisit.
January 13, 2013
| Permalink
|
Comments (0)
|
TrackBack (0)
Cafe Kozzy, 53 Red Lion Street, London, WC1R 4PD
Cafe Kozzy is just across the road from the previously reviewed Becks - though Becks has changed, it looks like this now...
Anyway, back to the Kozzy. Fancy menus. Good.
I ordered in slightly the wrong order. I love these little ordering slips and the codes contained therein. I'll always think of Baked Beans as being in Bflat from now on.
Always nice to get to choose your strength with the teabag. And to have somewhere to put it. Classic.
And the ebcb is magnificent. Huge. It's hard to convey just how big these plates are. They're big like the seas on Mars are big. You know, big.
Maybe this view will help convery it. For a sense of perspective, that mug at the back, that mug is twice the height of a London bus. The chips are that lovely pale, crunchy variety, starchy arrows aimed at your heart, the bacon is rich and pink like the petals on a meat rose, the beans orange like Martian blood, the egg as white and pure as virginal linen. All over nice.
Simple, efficient interior, flawless, speedy service. A fantastic ebcb lunch pop-in. Well done Cafe Kozzy.
January 28, 2012
| Permalink
|
Comments (1)
|
TrackBack (0)
Next
»
ebcb archive
Beach Cafe, West Street, Aberporth, SA43 2DB
George’s, 83 Green Lanes, Palmers Green, N13 4TD
The Cafe, 10A Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, SW1V 2SD
Star Cafe Grill, King Street, Hammersmith
Acton Town Cafe, Central Parade, Gunnersbury Lane, Acton
Jones Dairy, 24 Tudor Street, EC4
Bridge The Gap, 171F Battersea Park Road, SW8
Cafe Crescent, 40 Camden High Street
Full Monty Cafe, 207 Brighton Road (A23), Coulsdon
Jack's, 252 Lavender Hill, SW11
South Stack Kitchen, Holyhead, Anglesey
My Tea Shop, 23 Duke Street Hill, SE1
The Cosy Teapot, 101 Carrington Street, Nottingham
Rhos Transport Cafenear J49 of the M4, Carmarthenshire
Workers Cafe, Upper Street, Islington, N1
Denis Cafe, Castle Sands, The Harbour, Tenby, Pembrokeshire
Antonio's Cafe, 14-17 Piccadilly South, Manchester, M1
Double Six Cafe, Eversholt Street, NW1
Woodhead's Cafe, Simpson Street, Blackpool
Mermaid Cafe, North Prom, Mablethorpe
Abergeldie Cafe, Shudehill, Manchester, M4
Raffles, Craven Road, W2
Cafe In The Garden, Russell Square, WC1
Embankment Cafe, 25 Victoria Embankment, WC2
Colindale Cafe, Colindale Road, NW9
Becks Sandwich Bar, Red Lion Street, WC1
Valtaro Snack Bar, Marchmont Street, WC1
Grange Cafe, Grange Road, Bermondsey SE1
Windy Ridge, Ashbourne Road, Winkhill, nr Leek
River Cafe, Putney Bridge, SW6
Tony's Snack Bar, Chapter Street, SW1
Tiffany's, North Road, Brighton
Buscot Dairy Cafe, 44A Harrowby Street, W1
Times Cafe, 155 Malden Road, NW5
Amigo's, 37 Eagle Street, WC1R
Perugino, Tottenham Street, W1
DeNiro's, 34 Maple Street, W1
Parma Cafe, 412 Kennington Road, SE 11
La Forchetta, 92 Cowcross Street, EC1
The Warsaw Diner, Derby Road, Nottingham
Wilton Snack Bar, Wilton Road, Victoria
Rosa's Cafe, Hanbury Street, E1
Tony's, Northcote Road, SW11
Maries Cafe, Lower Marsh, Waterloo
Sarah's Tuck-In, Grainger Market, Newcastle
Cherrytop Cafe, Paddington Street, London, W1
Cherrytop Cafe, Paddington Street, London, W1
The Old Smithy, B5055, Monyash, Derbyshire
Rossi Restaurant, Hanbury Street, E1
Sarah's Cafe, Kentish Town Road, NW1
Cafe D'Jaconelli, 570 Maryhill Road, Glasgow
Stracathro Services, A90, North of Brechin
Fortes Restaurant, 15 Hide Hill, Berwick Upon Tweed
Tower Restaurant, 107 Lumley Road, Skegness
Mr Egg, 22 Hurst Road, Birmingham
Gambardella, 48 Vanburgh Park, SE3
Gino's Coffee Bar, Marylebone Place, NW1
York Cafe, York Place, Clifton, Bristol
Bar Bruno, Wardour Street, W1
Euston Sandwich Bar, Euston Road, NW1
Bar Remo, Princes Street, W1
Dino's Grill, Commercial Street, EC1
Muratori, Margaret Street, EC1
Salt Box Cafe, Hatton, A511, Derbyshire
PJs Transport Cafe, Draycott-In-The-Clay, Staffs
Dolphin Restaurant, Great Dark Street, Aberystwyth
Grindleford Station Cafe, Grindleford, Derbyshire
Astral Cafe, Horseferry Road, SW1
Obertelli's Eating House, Leadenhall Market, EC3
Metropolitan, Edgware Road, W2
E Pellicci, Bethnall Green Road, E2
the shepherdess, shepherdess walk, n1
lino's, alfred place, wc1
new piccadilly, denman street, w1
sky 2, hanson street, w1
diana's diner, endell street, wc1
city corner, middlesex street, ec1
blandfords, chiltern street, w1
cup of tea archive
Macari's Icecream Parlour, 246 Terminus Road, Eastbourne
The Islander, 5 The Maltings, Uttoxeter
Zippy, 42 Goldhawk Road, W12
The Scandinavian Kitchen, Great Titchfield Street, W1
Andrews Restaurant, 160 Grays Inn Road, WC1
Paul Rothe & Son, Marylebone Lane, W1
Wish Tower Cafe, King Edwards Parade, Western Lawns, Eastbourne
Light Railway Restaurant, Scanlon Bridge Road, Hythe, Kent
Arbutt's Cafe, Haggersgate, Whitby
The Honest Sausage, Regent's Park
Chunnel Bar, 133 Lower Marsh, SE1
Grandad's, A5, between Oswestry and Shrewsbury
Llanfaethlu Coffee House
Maison Bertaux, Greek Street, W1
Farina's, leather lane, EC1
Sky Cafe, Hanson Street, W1
Cafe, Redchurch Street, E2
D's brew stop, Cressbrook
Scrambled, Cleveland Street, W1
The Breakfast Club Soho - D'Arblay Street, W1
Aroma Coffee Bar, Lumley Road, Skegness
Maria's Cafe, Burdett Road, E14
H's Cafe, Neptune Street, SE16
Scottis, Clerkenwell Green, EC1
Vecchio Snack Bar, Madoc Street, Llandudno
Cafe Romano, Grenville Street, WC1
Lorelei, Bateman Street, W1
Il Buffone Cafe, Macklin Street
Marylebone Cafe, Marylebone Lane
Nardini's, Esplanade, Largs
National Milk Bars, Penrallt Street, Machynlleth
JT's snack bar, North Beach, Tenby
Harbour Bar, Sandside, Scarborough
Rendezvous Cafe, The Promenade, Whitley Bay
Cafe Riviera, Newbiggin-by-the-Sea, Northumberland
Journey's End Cafe, Small Hope Beach, Shanklin
Castle Snack Bar, Tabernacle Street, EC2
Wilkins, Marsham Street, SW1
Regency Cafe, 17-19 Recency Street, SW1
Bon Appetit, Cleveland Street, W1
Panino D'Oro, Brunswick Centre, WC1N
tors cafe, derby road (a52), cromford
da Andrea, Great Sutton Street, EC1
picasso's, king's road, sw3
inn the park, st james's park, w1
ellie's cafe, edgeware road, nw2
hungry hippo, matlock park, matlock, derbyshire
citysnacks, theobalds road, wc1
new piccadilly, denman street, w1
friendly cafe, old field lane, greenford
vg snack bar, great portland street tube, w1
lido, great castle street, w1
cafe roma, berwick street, w1
little portland cafe, little portland street, w1
centrale, soho
101 snack bar, charing cross road, wc2
bar italia, frith street
sandwich bar, brooks mews, w1
shepherdess, shepherdess walk, n1
matteos sandwich bar, tottenham street, w1
star cafe, great chapel street, w1
rendezvous, maddox street, w1
market place cafe, market place, w1
franks, great titchfield street, w1
bar bruno, wardour street, wc1
franx, neal street / shatesbury avenue, wc2
