The Movement for Reform Judaism | Evolving to the contemporary world
Please Donate
|
A
A
A
Home
About Us
Who’s Who
Please Donate
Recruitment
News
News & Press
Community News
Assembly of Reform Rabbis UK
Rabbi Laura Janner-Klausner
Events
Torah Readings
Jewish Festivals
Community Events
Reform Judaism Events
Building your Jewish Literacy – an online course
Northern Teacher Training
From Darkness to Light: a pre-Pesach Torah binge
Connecting with Members Telethon
L’Chaim Social Justice
Shirei Chagigah: our biennial music conference
Northern Chagigah
Chagigah: Save the Date, 22-24th June 2018
Synagogues
Youth & Young Adults
Youth
Students
Young Adults
Life Cycle
Resources
Reform Judaism in 1000 Words
Contact
Links
About Us
Reform Judaism is the national umbrella organisation of 42 autonomous synagogue communities.
Synagogues
Discover more about our communities around the country, and find your nearest Reform synagogue.
Resources
Inspiring educational materials, information for communities and resources for Jewish life including conversion and life cycle events.
Enabling the growth of a vibrant Reform Judaism, inspiring individuals and communities with Reform Jewish values and traditions
Latest News
17
Feb 17
Radlett’s Big Friday Night In
Radlett Reform Synagogue are holding an innovative "Big Friday Night In" on Friday 24 February. Instead of the usual synagogue service, the community has planned interactive resources and activities reaching out to all members including those who live further away. Rabbi Paul Freedman said: "The idea for our 'Big Friday Night In' came from work our Board members were doing on our Community Vision. We recognise that it can be quite difficult for some of our members to come to synagogue on a Friday night, either because of the distances and traffic involved or fitting it around family or dinner.…
17
Feb 17
Reform Judaism in 1000 Words: Kabbalah
Click here to download a pdf of Reform Judaism in 1000 Words: Kabbalah Context In earlier generations of Reform Judaism, Talmud was rarely studied. In our time, it is regularly taught in our synagogues, and is a fundamental aspect of rabbinic training. We came to understand that all of our texts are part of our rich literary inheritance, and all can be a source of inspiration and meaning if we develop the skills to access them. The last few years have seen a similar increase in interest in Kabbalah, which now finds itself firmly within the mainstream of Jewish culture…
Subscribe to our newsletter for all the latest news and upcoming events
Go
Recent Posts
Radlett’s Big Friday Night In
Reform Judaism in 1000 Words: Kabbalah
Holocaust Memorial Day at Mosaic Reform Synagogue
Holocaust Memorial Day 2017 at Finchley Reform Synagogue
Volunteer Support Worker – RSY-Netzer Israel Tour
Contact Us The Movement for Reform Judaism
The Sternberg Centre for Judaism
80 East End Road, London
N3 2SY
Tel:
020 8349 5640
Copyright © 2015 The Movement for Reform Judaism - All Rights Reserved Company Registration Number: 07431950, Charity Number: 1139806
Affiliated with the World Union for Progressive Judaism & the European Union for Progressive Judaism
Web Design by Friendly Gorilla
Home
About Us
Events
Links
Terms
Contact
