Hendron welcomes news that Sinn Fein will support Council Jubilee plans (The Alliance Party of Northern Ireland)
Alliance on Facebook
Alliance on Twitter
Alliance on Flickr
Alliance on YouTube
Menu
Home
About Alliance
We Believe
Email News from Alliance
Join Alliance
Donate to Alliance
Declared Donations
Our Team
Candidates
Councillors
Spokespersons
Constituency Offices
HQ Staff
Our Policies
Latest
Manifesto
Shared Future
Education
The Economy
Health
Poverty and Social Exclusion
Environment
Democracy
Farming and rural areas
Transport
Culture, Arts and Leisure
Employment and Learning
Justice
Flag FAQs
Alliance response to Unionist flag leaflet
News
All News
MLA News
Councillor News
Alliance News (Journal of The Alliance Party of Northern Ireland)
For Everyone
For Everyone Strategy
For Everyone Executive Summary
FAQs about For Everyone
Statement
Hendron welcomes news that Sinn Fein will support Council Jubilee plans
February 16, 2012 4:43 PM
Alliance Group Leader on Belfast City Council Máire Hendron has welcomed news that Sinn Féin is set to support Belfast City Council's plans to celebrate the Queen's Diamond Jubilee, saying it is another positive step along the way towards the shared future that Alliance has worked so hard to deliver.
Cllr Máire Hendron said: "This is a very positive step forward for Belfast. There are a number of exciting events planned by the Council and this is a very special occasion which will be enjoyed by many people across the city.
"We are very pleased that Sinn Féin is going to support these plans to celebrate the Queen's Diamond Jubilee. Progress on important matters like this is a key element to helping us build a shared future. This news sends out a very strong message of co-operation and partnership at Council level and I hope this positivity continues for the future.
"All of Alliance's work to help build positive community relations is now delivering results, and we will continue to make every effort to ensure that there is only constructive politics at the Council."
ENDS
Display: Mobile. Switch to: Desktop / Accessible (requires cookies). Already registered for email updates? Sign in to manage your contact details.
Printed (hosted) by Prater Raines Ltd, 98 Sandgate High Street, Folkestone CT20 3BY
Published and promoted by The Alliance Party of Northern Ireland, 88 University Street, Belfast, BT7 1HE
The views expressed are those of the publisher, not of the service provider.
Website designed and developed by Prater Raines Ltd
We respect your right to privacy. Read our privacy policy to find out more.
