Local councils: funding community and voluntary groups - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
Home
Consultation outcome
Local councils: funding community and voluntary groups
From:
Department for Communities and Local Government
Part of:
Council Tax reform
First published:
13 April 2011
Applies to:
England
This was published under the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government
This consultation has concluded
Download the full outcome
New best value statutory guidance consultation: summary of responses and government response
Ref: ISBN 9781409830573
PDF, 158KB, 14 pages
This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format.
If you use assistive technology (such as a screen reader) and need a
version of this document in a more accessible format, please email alternativeformats@communities.gsi.gov.uk.
Please tell us what format you need. It will help us if you say what assistive technology you use.
Detail of outcome
This document summaries the responses to the consultation on the best value duty and gives the government’s response.
Original consultation
This consultation ran from13 April 2011 to
11:45pm on 14 June 2011
Summary
Consultation on 'best value' guidance, setting out reasonable expectations of how councils should work with voluntary and community groups.
Documents
Best value: new draft statutory guidance - consultation
Ref: ISBN 9781409829447
PDF, 168KB, 8 pages
This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format.
If you use assistive technology (such as a screen reader) and need a
version of this document in a more accessible format, please email alternativeformats@communities.gsi.gov.uk.
Please tell us what format you need. It will help us if you say what assistive technology you use.
Best value: new draft statutory guidance and other measures - equalities impact assessment
Ref: ISBN 9781409829461
PDF, 126KB, 10 pages
This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format.
If you use assistive technology (such as a screen reader) and need a
version of this document in a more accessible format, please email alternativeformats@communities.gsi.gov.uk.
Please tell us what format you need. It will help us if you say what assistive technology you use.
Consultation description
This consultation seeks views on new best value duty guidance, setting out some reasonable expectations of the way local councils should work with voluntary and community groups and small businesses when facing difficult funding decisions.
We would welcome comments from any organisations and individuals affected by the new guidance and any others with an interest.
Share this page
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Document information
Published:
13 April 2011
From:
Department for Communities and Local Government
Part of:
Council Tax reform
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
