The Big Curry - The Soldiers' Charity
Contact us
Search for:
Search
Follow on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
The Soldiers' Charity
Need our help?
Donate
Toggle navigation
×
Home
About Us
Events
News
Shop
Support Us
The Big Curry
1 Jan 2016 - 31 Dec 2016 Nationwide
The Big CurryGet InspiredRecipesToolkitsPay Your Money InChilli Cookie RouletteTikka for our Troops
Home / Events / Featured / The Big Curry
You’re on the verge of doing something extraordinary
We’re asking you to flex your organisational muscles. We’re asking for your drive and enthusiasm. We’re asking you to harness that good, old-fashioned British pride you have in the job our soldiers do. And we’re asking you to get your friends, colleagues and families to come together in October for a Big Curry and to raise funds for a great cause.
The Big Curry is a fun, delicious and very British way of helping us raise the money we need to do what we do. We’ve put together various materials to inspire you and make organising your own as simple as possible.
When: October is Big Curry month, but really, you can hold one whenever you like!
Where: In your home, your office, your local pub, takeaway…wherever you fancy!
How: Simply fill out the registration form below for your free fundraising pack
Raising money:  You can raise money anyway you like – sell tickets, ask for donations, hold a raffle or take on the Chilli Cookie Roulette challenge.
Register for your free Big Curry fundraising pack
Please note: If you are based in a military barracks, or using a secure server behind a firewall, your details may be blocked by your IT systems when submitting this form. Please contact us at bigcurry@soldierscharity.org or on 0207 811 3202 to register
Name*
First
Last
Email*
Phone (optional)Address*Our new pack is pretty amazing and should fit through your letter box but just to be sure it may be worth putting the address of somewhere you know you'll be when it's delivered.
Street Address
Address Line 2
City
ZIP / Postal Code
How did you hear about the Big Curry?*Tell us how you heard about the Big Curry campaignPlease select an option...A Big Curry flyerAn email from The Soldiers' CharityFacebook advertFrontline MagazineSoldier MagazinePrevious participantThe Soldiers' Charity websiteTwitterOtherOther*Please tell us where you heard about the Big CurryWhere are you planning on having a Big Curry?*Tell us where you're planning on having a Big Curry.Please select one...At home with friends or familyIn a local restaurantIn a local pubAt workIn a barracksKeep in touchLet us know if you'd like stay in touch with The Soldiers' Charity and hear about news and events by joining our newsletter.
I would like to receive The Soldiers' Charity newsletter
ABF The Soldiers’ Charity does not pass information to other organisations, but will hold and use data you have supplied for administrative purposes and to keep you informed of its activities. You can opt out at any time in the future by contacting us at info @ soldierscharity.org
A Taste of Adventure
It’s always been one of the defining characteristics of the British soldier – that impulse to explore, to try new things and to see new places. Wherever this impulse has taken them, they’ve always swapped stories and shared meals with the locals – and they’ve brought what they’ve learned back home. So it’s largely thanks to our soldiers and their culinary curiosity that curry came to the UK in the first place.
Get together with friends and cook up a storm for your Big Curry
From everyone’s favourite Indian tikka masala, through fragrant Thai greens and reds, to more unusual dishes from Africa, there’s a world of curries out there for you to try with your Big Curry. Impress your friends and cook a selection, or have everyone bring their own special creations!
Read Charlie’s story to find out how one supporter raised £165 for The Soldiers’ Charity
Check out some of our favourites on our recipes page or send us yours by emailing bigcurry@soldierscharity.org
Location, location location
You can hold your Big Curry wherever you want – that’s the beauty of the campaign – it’s down to you where you want to do it. Many people simply gather their friends and family around the dinner table at home and share in the comfort of a home cooked curry. For those of you looking to really raise the temperature, getting your favourite local restaurant or pub on board is a great way of boosting numbers.
Holding your Big Curry in a pub or restaurant is a great way of raising even more money for your event
At home: Your Big Curry can be as simple as inviting your friends around for a delicious homemade curry (or even ordering in a takeaway).
At work: Round up your colleagues for a break from the norm with spicy treats like samosas, bhajis and Bombay mix
Out and about: Get creative with your venue – maybe a curry themed picnic or barbeque if the sun is shining. Why not ask your local pub to help you host, or hire your village hall…the list is endless!
Raising money from your Big Curry
Auctions/raffles – ask friends and local businesses to donate prizes
Sell tickets for a curry and quiz night
Get fancy with a curry and cocktail evening. Bloody Mary anyone?
Ask for donations towards a curry breakfast tray at work, serving cardamom muffins and chai lattes.
Sell our Soldiers’ Charity wristbands and pin badges – just order them from Big Curry HQ anytime
Getting the word out
Check out our toolkits for posters, invitations and a range of other materials that will help you get the word out
We can help you put together a Big Curry media release if you’re after some local press attention
Tweet about your event using #BigCurry and let us know @BigCurryTSC so we can keep the conversation going
Keep your network up to date through Facebook
Charlie’s Big Curry
Charlie didn’t think of herself as a fundraiser. Then a friend told her about a Big Curry he’d been invited to and it occured to her that fundraising can simply be about getting friends round and getting busy in the kitchen.
“I have always enjoyed doing my bit for charity and The Big Curry looked like the perfect opportunity to get all my friends together, have fun and raise money for a good cause all at the same time. Like most people, my grandfathers both served in the Army and by coincidence were even in the same regiment without even knowing each other.
I wanted to commemorate them and give something back to those who need our help today. The Soldiers’ Charity have been helping soldiers, veterans and their families since before the end of the Second World War so it seemed like the perfect fit.”
Charlie raised £165 from her Big Curry night
“I was so excited when my pack arrived in the post, it had everything I needed to host a dinner party at home. I followed some of the recipes in the pack and served up a delicious Thai curry. Everyone put £10 in the pot (some put in more), raising £165 for The Soldiers’ Charity!
The Big Curry team were fantastic and sent me anything extra I needed. We had a brilliant evening and I will definitely be holding one again next year!”
Recipes
Take a look at some of the delicious recipes below, from Gurkha chef Pemba Lama’s fried pork curry to Gregg Wallace’s chips and curry sauce, we’ve got plenty to inspire you to a brilliant culinary creation fit for any Big Curry! Got your own secret family recipe? Send it in and we might feature it on our website!
Yellow Thai Chicken Curry with Chilli Seared Aubergines | Nitisha Patel
This vibrant, colourful thai curry by Nitisha Patel from My Modern Indian Kitchen utilises a simple fresh yellow curry paste bursting with flavour.
View the recipe
Ingredients
Ingredients For The Marinated Chicken
500g Diced Chicken Thigh
1 tbsp Yellow Thai Curry Paste
2 tbsp Vegetable Oil
For the yellow curry paste
6 tbsp Vegetable Oil
1 Large Finely Chopped Onion
1 tsp Salt
1 tsp Yellow Thai Curry Paste
1 tsp Cumin Powder
1 tsp Coriander Powder
1 tsp Turmeric Powder
Marinated Chicken (from above)
250ml Water
1 Can of Coconut Milk
1 tsp Palm Sugar
1 tsp Chopped Thai Basil
1 tsp Chopped Coriander
Juice from 1 lime
Method
In a large mixing bowl, combine all the ingredients for the marinated chicken breast and leave to marinade for 12 hours refrigerated or 2 hours unrefrigerated
In a large saucepan, heat the oil and add in the chopped onions and salt and fry until softened
Add in the yellow Thai curry paste and fry until cooked through
Add in the cumin, coriander and turmeric powder and mix well, add in a splash of water to stop the spices from drying out the pan
Add in the marinated chicken, mix well to seal and to be coated well in the onions and spices
Pour in the water, mix well and simmer for 10 minutes to allow the chicken to cook through
Pour in the coconut milk, mix well and allow the curry to simmer for a further 10 minutes
Add in the palm sugar, chopped Thai Basil and chopped coriander nd lemon juice. Mix well for 2 minutes and remover from the heat.
Serve with steamed Thai rice.
Chicken Korma | Anjum Anand
A delicious, quick and easy classic provided by TV chef Anjum Anand.
View the recipe
Ingredients
700g bone-in small chicken joints, skinned and cleaned
2 tbsp vegetable oil or ghee
10 black peppercorns
10 green cardamom pods
1 black cardamom pod
10 cloves
1 shard of cinnamon
1 piece of mace
12 green chillies, left whole
Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
1 medium onion, peeled and chopped
200ml water
70g creamed coconut
3 tbsp ground almonds
¾ tsp garam masala
Good pinch of sugar
Handful of fresh coriander leaves and stalks, chopped
For the marinade
200ml plain yoghurt
1 heaped tbsp garlic paste
1 heaped tbsp ginger paste
2 tsp ground coriander
Method
Mix the marinade ingredients together in a non-metallic bowl, add the chicken, stir and marinate for at least 30 minutes or for as long as possible. Cover and put in the fridge, if you have the time to leave it longer. Bring back to room temperature before cooking. Heat the oil in a large non-stick pan and add the whole spices, give the pan a good stir and add the onion, green chillies and salt. Fry for about 6 minutes until the onions are golden. Add the chicken along with the marinade and the water. Turn the heat up and bring to the boil, then simmer, covered, over a lowish heat for about 25-35 minutes, depending on the size of the joints, until the chicken is tender, stirring every now and then. Add a splash of water if the pan is getting dry at any stage. Stir in the coconut and almonds, and cook, uncovered, for another 3 minutes until the gravy is creamy. Add the garam masala, sugar and fresh coriander, taste and adjust seasoning. Serve with rice or roti.
Beef Bughela | Urban Rajah
This special recipe provided by Urban Rajah is perfect for a dinner party with friends or family. Prepare it a day in advance if you can to let the flavours infuse. For more delicious recipes like this, buy Urban Rajah’s Curry Memoirs or visit www.urbanrajah.com
View the recipe
Ingredients
1kg stewing beef, chopped
2 medium onions, finely sliced
3 garlic cloves, chopped
3 green chillies, chopped
5cm fresh root ginger, peeled and sliced into matchsticks
1 tsp ground garam masala
2 tbsp medium curry powder
1 tsp ground coriander
2 tbsp whole garam masala (2 tsp cumin seeds, 1 tsp cloves, 2 tsp teaspoon whole coriander, 1 tsp whole pepper)
2 tbsp sunflower oil peanut or olive oil
500g natural yoghurt, fork-whipped, you can use a low fat option I prefer to use one with 10% fat
Big scooped handful of fresh chopped coriander
Method
This method of cooking relies on the balance of water and spice. It’s an unusual way of measuring water quantities but as pot sizes vary it’s best to follow this traditional technique. Put the beef in a large pot and mark out 5cm above the height of the beef. Remove the beef and fill the pot with salted water up to the measured point. Bring the water to the boil and add the beef (really important – do not brown it or you’ll screw the dish up). Continue boiling on a medium heat until all the yucky foam reaches the surface, scooping it off with a slotted spoon until the water is clear, then boil for a further 30 minutes. Throughout the process, leave the pot uncovered – you’re looking to produce an intense, reduced sauce. Slide in the onions, garlic, chilli and ginger and cook for 30 minutes on a low heat; the water will reduce a little. Gently stir. Add the ground garam masala, curry powder and ground coriander and cook for a further 30 minutes. It takes a while but stick with it. Drop in the whole garam masala and cook for 20 minutes, then incrementally add the whipped yoghurt tablespoon by tablespoon, stirring gently each time, making sure it’s assimilated and doesn’t curdle and get gritty. Keep stirring, then add a glug of oil until it rises to the top and the curry looks silky. The beef should be tender and almost flaky. Lastly, add the chopped coriander and stir in. It’ll finish off the curry beautifully. Eat with piping hot Chapattis.
Thai Green Curry | Gizzi Erskine
Curry in a hurry? Save time by using ready-made paste in this truly tasty Thai green curry.
View the recipe
Ingredients
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1-2 tbsp ready-made green curry paste
6 chicken thighs, skin and bones removed, meat cut into strips
400ml tin coconut milk
2 lime leaves (optional)
2 tbsp Thai fish sauce
1 tbsp sugar
handful green beans, trimmed
handful asparagus spears
salt and freshly ground black pepper
Method
Heat the oil in a wok over a high heat until smoking. Add the green curry paste and stir fry for 1-2 minutes, or until fragrant.
Add the chicken strips and stir until coated in the curry paste. Continue to stir-fry for 1-2 minutes, or until the chicken has browned on all sides.
Add the coconut milk, lime leaves, fish sauce and sugar and stir well. Bring the mixture to the boil, then reduce the heat until the mixture is simmering. Continue to simmer for 8-10 minutes, or until the sauce has thickened.
Add the green beans and asparagus and continue to simmer for 2-3 minutes, stirring regularly, until just tender. Season with salt and pepper.
To serve, spoon the rice into four serving bowls, then ladle over the Thai green chicken curry. Sprinkle over the coriander leaves.
Duck and Mango Curry | Yotam Ottolenghi
Mango, lime and duck is a fantastic combination, but it’s the heady sauce that gives this Malay curry an edge. Via The Guardian.
View the recipe
Ingredients
4 medium duck breasts, scored lightly on both sides
120ml sunflower oil
Salt
50g palm sugar (or caster sugar)
180ml coconut milk
280g french beans, blanched
2 ripe medium mangos, peeled and cut into 2cm dice
1 tbsp lime juice
For the spice paste
⅓ tsp dried chilli flakes
2½ tbsp sambal oelek
3 medium-heat red chillies
30g fresh ginger, peeled and sliced
2-3 lemongrass stalks, sliced
1 tsp ground turmeric
12 small shallots, sliced thin
10 garlic cloves, sliced thin
1 tsp Thai or Malay shrimp paste
Method
Put all the ingredients for the spice paste in a food processor and work to a smooth paste; you will probably need to add some sunflower oil to help, about one to two tablespoons. Put 150g of the paste in a medium bowl, add a quarter-teaspoon of salt and the duck breasts, and rub in. Cover and refrigerate for two or more hours. Set the remaining paste aside.
Put a large, heavy sauté pan on medium heat. Scrape any excess paste from the skin of the duck and add it to the reserved paste. Lay the duck skin side down in the hot pan, and sear for two to three minutes on each side, until well browned (don’t worry about the odd black bit); you may need to strain off any fat that gathers in the pan. Once seared, remove the breasts from the pan and put in a bowl. Wipe clean the pan with kitchen towel, add the remaining oil and heat up. Cook the remaining paste on medium heat for 10-15 minutes, stirring continuously, until it turns a deep red; if it starts to catch, add a splash or two of water.
Return the duck to the pan skin side down, add 250ml water and half a teaspoon of salt, and simmer for six minutes, turning once. Remove the duck, add the sugar, coconut, beans and mango, and simmer for three minutes. Meanwhile, cut the duck into 0.5cm slices and return to the curry, along with the lime juice. Cook for two to three minutes more, taste, add salt if needed, and serve.
Chips and curry sauce | Gregg Wallace
A takeway favourite if the traditional rice dish isn’t your thing!
View the recipe
Ingredients
50g Butter
1 Small onion finely chopped
1 dessert apple, peeled, cored and finely chopped
2 tbsp medium curry powder
3 tbsp plain flour
600 ml good bouillon stock
1 tsp curry paste
1tbsp mango chutney
1tbsp brown sugar
juice of 1 lemon
35g sultanas
Method
Melt the butter in a pan over a medium heat. Add the onion and apple and cook gently for 5 minutes. Stir in the curry powder and flour. Gradually add the stock and bring to the boil. Add the remaining ingredients, reduce the heat and simmer, lid on, for 25 minutes.
Meanwhile, cook the chips;
Peel the spuds and cut them into uniform shapes. Soak in cold water for 30 minutes, then drain and dry with a kitchen towel. Place enough oil in a deep, heavy pan to come up to no more than halfway up the pan’s sides. Heat over a gentle heat to 140 degrees C or until a cube of bread turns brown in less than 1 minute. Gently lower the chips into the oil and cook until soft (not brown); 5 minutes. Lift out the chips. Increase the temperature of the oil to 190 degrees C or until a bread cube turns brown in 30 seconds. Lower the chips again and fry until brown and crisp. Drain on a kitchen towel and season.
Serves 4
Sweet Potato & Chicken Curry | Levi Roots
A vibrant, colourful curry from the Caribbean that’s sure to make your Big Curry stand out!
View the recipe
Ingredients
1 tbsp. vegetable oil
2 chicken breasts, cut into strips
1 large sweet potato, diced into small chunks (around 190g), par boiled
1 red pepper, cut into strips
Caribbean Curry Cooking Sauce
Method
1. In a large pan fry the chicken in the oil until cooked through and browned. Add the sweet potato chunks, red pepper and Caribbean curry cooking sauce to the pan. Stir, bring to the boil and then simmer for 5 mins or until piping hot.
Serve with the Rice ‘n’ Peas and garnish with coriander.
Serves 4
A vibrant, colourful curry from the Caribbean that’s sure to make your Big Curry stand out!
View the recipe
Ingredients
½ cup extra virgin olive oil
4 peeled garlic cloves, finely chopped
2 medium size onions, finely chopped
4 medium size tomatoes, finely chopped
1 teaspoon chilli powder
1 teaspoon turmeric powder
1 teaspoon ground cumin
4 green chillies cut in half
1 teaspoons mustard seeds
100g baby spinach washed and cleaned in cold water
3lb king prawns (size 6/8), shelled and de-veined
1 tsp finely chopped fresh coriander leaf
Salt to taste
Method
Heat the oil on a medium heat. Add the mustard seeds and cook until they pop, then add the onions, tomatoes, salt and stir for 3-4 minutes. Add the chilli powder and turmeric and cook over moderate heat for 2-3 minutes.
In another non-stick pan, heat the olive oil to a medium heat and add the garlic. Once the garlic becomes a little brown, add the king prawns, salt and cook, stirring until they turn white. Now, add all the spice from the other pan and keep stirring, adding the baby spinach and green chillies and stir for 3-4 minutes. Add some chopped coriander leaf to finish off.
Transfer to a platter and serve hot with rice.
Serves 4
You can find plenty of recipes and inspiration from various websites such as The Guardian and the BBC Good Food Guide. If you have your own special creation, let us know by emailing us at bigcurry@soldierscharity.org
Big Curry toolkits
We have plenty of materials for you to download in order to help you make the most out of your Big Curry, from placemats, invites and Gift Aid forms. If you want to get the word out to your local press, you can also download our handy Press Release template here.
Invites
Download our handy invites and let all your friends know they’re on your Big Curry guest-list!
Download the invites here or click on the thumbnail below »
Placemats
Get the dinner table looking correct by printing off your Big Curry placemats. With a little info about our work with soldiers and veterans and plenty of ways to get involved online and donate, they’re the perfect addition to your spread! Comes in four different colours.
Download the placemats here or click on the thumbnail below »
Posters
Download and print off our Big Curry posters – we have two different ones for a handy way of promoting your event in your local!
Download the posters here or click on the thumbnails below »
Gift Aid form
Make the money you raise from your Big Curry go a little further with Gift Aid. Download the form and and get everyone at your event to fill it in. HMRC will then add an extra 25p to every £1 you give to The Soldiers’ Charity, at no extra cost to you or your guests.
You can find out more about Gift Aid and how it works online, or give us a call on 020 7811 3202 if you have any questions.
Download the Gift Aid form here or click on the thumbnail below »
Paying your money in
Head down to the bank, and pay all the money you’ve raised into your account. Then, there are 3 easy ways to get it over to us;
1. Donate by phone…
Call 020 7811 3202 with your credit or debit card handy. (Lines open Mon – Fri 09:00 – 17:30)
2. Use the magic of the internet…
You can donate your Big Curry money straight away on our JustGiving page at justgiving.com/BigCurry2016
3. Or just do it the old-fashioned way
Pop a cheque made payable to ABF The Soldiers’ Charity in the post using the Freepost envelope enclosed in your fundraising pack. If that’s disappeared or got curry all over it, dig out a fresh envelope and address it to:
Freepost RRGY-GSCB-HTZX
The Big Curry
ABF The Soldiers’ Charity
Mountbarrow House
12 Elizabeth Street
London SW1W 9RB
(You won’t need a stamp.)
We can’t tell you how grateful we are for helping us and our beneficiaries. We can, however, try. Once we receive your donation we’ll write and say thank you, and we’ll also send you a certificate.
Chilli Cookie Roulette
Are you brave enough to take on our Chilli Cookie Roulette? Add a little something extra to your Big Curry night by daring your friends to take a bite out of one of our specially created cookies. Each pack contains six chocolate cookies, but one of them is made with the world’s hottest chilli – the Carolina Reaper!
Order your Chilli Cookie Roulette pack now!
Made especially for The Big Curry by baker Nila Holden, each pack cost £6.99 (plus £3.00 p&p) and for every one sold, ABF The Soldiers’ Charity will receive a £2.00 donation.
So go on, dare yourself and your guests to take a bite!
Watch six soldiers take on the dare!
Buy yours online now from the Nila Holden bakery.
Tikka for our Troops
Tikka for our Troops is back for The Big Curry’s 10th birthday!
Tikka for our Troops is the perfect way any restaurant or pub can get involved with our Big Curry Campaign this October.
We are asking that for every tikka dish you sell during the month of October you donate just 50p to The Soldiers’ Charity, a great opportunity to support our soldiers, veterans and their families.
If you would like to talk this through in more detail, please call us on 0207 811 3202 or simply register your interest below and we will send you out your free menu inserts! By taking part in Tikka for our Troops we will promote you and your restaurant/pub on The Big Curry Facebook page along with our new regional Facebook groups, meaning locals shall be directed towards supporting your restaurant or pub, as you support us!
The Soldiers’ Charity is the Army’s National Charity supporting soldiers, veterans and their families when they need it most. You can find out more about who we help on our website.
We really hope that you will join in with The Soldiers’ Charity Big Curry and support ‘Tikka for our Troops’ to bring your local community together and celebrate our serving men and women.
Name of your pub or restaurant*Address*
Street Address
Address Line 2
City
ZIP / Postal Code
Email*
Enter Email
Confirm Email
Number of menu cards required*
Got a question? Get in touch
If you've got a question, give us a call on 020 7811 3202 or email us at bigcurry@soldierscharity.org
Email
Event Sponsors
There are many ways in which your company can become a sponsor of the Big Curry campaign. Simply email bigcurry@soldierscharity.org or call 020 7811 3202
Join our mailing list
Be the first to hear about our latest news and events, and our ongoing work with soldiers and veterans.
Next
Follow on Twitter
Follow
Like us on Facebook
Like
Watch our videos
Watch
View photo gallery
View
cobseo_logo
frsb_logo
veterans-scotland_logo
assoc-charitable-orgs_footer
InformationJobs
News
Events
Need help?
Support us
Publications
Donate
Media Centre
Contact
Email:
supportercare@soldierscharity.org
Tel: 020 7901 8900
LegalAccessibility
Privacy policy
Terms & conditions
Accounts
Corporate info
Governance
© 2016 ABF The Soldiers’ Charity. ABF The Soldiers’ Charity is a registered charity in England and Wales (1146420) and Scotland (SC039189)
ABF The Soldiers' Charity website uses cookies, tracking pixels and related technologies. Cookies are small data files that are served by our platform and stored on your device. Our site uses cookies dropped by us or third parties for a variety of purposes including to operate and personalize the website. Also, cookies may also be used to track how you use the site to target ads to you on other websites.
A Hands Up project
