Diamond Jubilee not so sparkly - celebrations blamed for manufacturing slump
Content
News
Blogs
Columns
Features
Videos
Sponsor News
All Articles
Events
Sectors
Aerospace
Automation
Automotive
Construction
Chemical
Defence
Energy
Engineering
Electronics
Food and Drink
Healthcare
Machine tools
I.T.
Manufacturing Technologies
Materials
Metalworking
Nuclear
Pharmaceutical
Renewables
R&D
Shipbuilding
Space
Textile
Transportation
Topics
3D Printing/Additive manufacturing
Acquisitions
Company Announcements
Company Investment
Design and PLM
Economy
Education
Environmental Sustainability
Energy
ERP
Global
Government
Finance
Health and Safety
Industrial Strategy
IoT
I.T.
Logistics & Materials Handling
Maintenance & Productivity
Manufacturing Leadership
Manufacturing Technologies
Regulation
Research and Development
Servitisation
Supply Chain
Technology and Innovation
University research
Workforce and skills
Reports
Jobs
Recruitment
Jobs
Advertise
h
P
Log In
Subscribe
Magazine
Edition: UK
AUS editionIND editionLAT editionUSA edition
Newsletter sign up
Diamond Jubilee not so sparkly – celebrations blamed for slump Posted on 7 Aug 2012
The Jubilee celebrations have been blamed for a decline in manufacturing output, image courtesy of Tony Harrison
A decline in output caused by the Jubilee has prompted a rallying cry from Unite for the Government to ‘wake up’.
The Jubilee celebrations had a negative impact on manufacturing output, new statistics have revealed. This latest slump was all too predictable according to Unite who are accusing the Government of complacency in this time of continued economic turmoil.
The Office of National Statistics said that production had slumped after a 1.2 per cent rise in May. The extra bank holidays in June have been blamed for a decline in production which saw manufacturing output fall by 2.9 per cent.
Analysts were surprised by the figures, as they had initially forecast a slump of 4.1 per cent.
Ms Lee Hopley, chief economist at EEF, the manufacturers’ organisation, said: “June’s sharp fall in output was to be expected given the disruptions to working patterns over the extra holidays. While the fall didn’t turn out to be quite as steep as indicated, feedback suggests that confidence remains fragile. There are still bright spots to be found in some export markets. The question is whether July’s data will confirm that output was simply displaced or if this is the beginning of a more worrying downward trend.”
Meanwhile Unite say that ‘alarm bells should be ringing’ and accused the Government of being in a ‘slumber of complacency’ by refusing to take action with the foreseeable figures.
Unite assistant general secretary, Tony Burke said:  “Britain needs to break out of the spiral of decline made in Downing Street. Osborne’s austerity is choking off demand and the banks refusal to lend is killing off any hope of a recovery.”
Burke calls for a National Investment Bank to support struggling businesses. He said this would allow businesses to bypass the existing banking structure that has ‘failed to lend and properly support British PLC’.
Some companies used clever tactics to get around the days off. Marketing manager at Triumph Motorcycles, Andrea Friggi said: “The factory always closes for the week following the last May bank holiday so we simply moved this annual shutdown to coincide with the Jubilee holiday.  It therefore had minimal impact on overall production figures”.
The news was not all bad, with some sectors increasing production. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products and computer equipment seemed to be impervious from the holiday curse and actually increased output for the month.
Most Read
All
Last 7 Days
US Air Force to unveil new secret ‘black project’ bomber plan
How a cardboard box is made
US allocates $1.3bn for Investing in Manufacturing Communities
Five key trends for UK manufacturing industry in next decade
UK looking to private finance to fund science in universities
Fusion power: safe, green and coming soon
Google Deep Mind AI develops human aggression
Leadership in the age of digital disruption
Embracing digital transformation
Harvard researchers develop battery that could last a decade
Manufacturing Jobs
Production Planner / Stock Controller
PermanentBased Fort William£ Attractive Salary & Benefits + Relocation Assistance
B2B Marketing Executive
PermanentLondonDOE
Manufacturing Specialist
| Contract
| UK Government Project
| India
Full Time Contract for 1 YearIndia£200 per day
Tweets by @TheManufacturer
Facebook
LinkedIn
Advertise
News
Events
Reports
Videos
Jobs
Advertising Specs
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Head OfficeElizabeth House, 39 York Road, London SE1 7NQ
T: +44 (0)20 7401 6033F: +44 (0)844 854 1010
Copyright © 2017 Hennik Research
Web Design by
