Logbook Loans from ALT G Loans
Home
About Us
FAQs
Logbook Loans: What You Need to Know
How to Find Affordable Logbook Loans
Contact us
When you have bad credit, you are often tagged as a high risk borrower.
If you're looking to take out a personal loan, this means chances of disapproval are very high. Banks and high street lenders especially refuse loans from borrowers with a history of ccjs, defaults and bankruptcy. But not to worry, Alt G Loans is here to help you snag a loan even if you've been refused one elsewhere.
Who Alt G Loans
Alt G Loans is a trusted name when it comes to bad credit loans for consumers in the UK. Knowing how hard it is to avail a personal loan when you have bad credit, we established this website to serve as an online portal for cheap and affordable logbook loans as well as an online resource for free quotes and free expert advice.
Our mission, at the end of the day, is clear and simple. Alt G Loans exists to help borrowers tailor their logbook loans according to individual needs and budget. Click here if you want more info on logbook loans.
What We Do
At Alt G Loans, providing fair, flexible and fast logbook loans is what we do best. We cater to borrowers across UK offering logbook loans from £500 to £50,000 at representative APR below the market average. Our logbook loans can be repaid in 12 to 36 months or sometimes longer depending on repayment term arrangement.
To ensure that we offer customers only the best deals available in the market, we have a team of experts working behind the scene. They scout and search the market for affordable deals while also partnering with other key providers. We also work hand in hand with top websites such as SimpleLogbookLoan , Money Savings Experts at http://www.moneysavingexpert.com/loans/ and others, for more free advice on personal loans.
Why Choose Us
When you partner with Alt G Loans for your logbook loan deals, expect to enjoy a few advantages. One is our fair price. Driven by our mission to help borrowers with bad credit, we strive to keep interest rates as low as possible by offering you as any options as possible. We also assess individual applications thoroughly so we can help tailor your loans accordingly.
At Alt G Loans, you also get to enjoy ultra-fast processing. Provided that you meet the requirements, we can guarantee same day approval for your logbook loan. Once approved, you can receive the money in 24 hours or mostly less.
As a customer-centric website, Alt G Loans is also renowned for our topnotch customer service. From beginning to end and even after the application approval, we have specialists who can help you every step of the way. You can tap on our experts for free advice whenever necessary.
Are You Eligible
To be eligible for a logbook loan at Alt G Loans, you must be of legal age (over 18 years old), a UK resident and a vehicle owner. Your vehicle's logbook document must be in your name. The car should also be less than 10 years in age and should be free of any type of financing. You'll also be required to provide of steady and regular income. And finally, you must provide bank account details where the money will be transferred once application is approved.
Get Approved Today
To turn your vehicle to cash today, you only need to follow out three-step application process. Fill out our online application form. Prepare the needed documents and complete the application process at one of our local offices. We will then assess your application and confirm approval. Once approved, you can receive the money wired to your account within the same day.
Apply Now
Fill in the form and we’ll contact you.
First name
Surname:
Telephone no:
Postcode:
Email:
Call me back at:
Home
About Us
FAQs
Logbook Loans: What You Need to Know
How to Find Affordable Logbook Loans
How Logbook Loan Works
Why Logbook Loans
Contact us
Copyright © www.altg20.org.uk All Rights Reserved
