BBC News | UK | Football staff recruitment 'racist'
CATEGORIES
TV
RADIO
COMMUNICATE
WHERE I LIVE
INDEX
SEARCH
You are in: UK
Front Page
World
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Business
Sci/Tech
Health
Education
Entertainment
Talking Point
In Depth
AudioVideo
SERVICES
Daily E-mail
News Ticker
Mobiles/PDAs
Feedback
Help
Low Graphics
Friday, 17 August, 2001, 13:34 GMT 14:34 UK
Football staff recruitment 'racist'
John Barnes: Few black players become managers
Ninety-nine per cent of administrative staff in football are white, according to a study.
Researchers from Leicester University say they have found clear evidence of institutional racism in football clubs in England and Wales.
The report found that only one in nine clubs had a written equal opportunities policy to recruit administrative staff.
I don't know if it's because I'm black, but I'm sure that at the moment my colour's not helping me
Former Bradford City left winger Andy Kiwomya
The author of the report, Steve Bradbury, told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme there was a "glass ceiling" for black ex-professionals trying to get into a managerial role.
Former Bradford City left winger Andy Kiwomya agreed with him.
He has tried to become an academy coach with several clubs since retiring three years ago, without success.
"I don't know if it's because I'm black, but I'm sure that at the moment my colour's not helping me."
The study is the first audit of recommendations to rid the sport of racism, made three years ago by the government's football task force.
The report said very few clubs had heeded the recommendations.
Only two clubs out of the 92 Premier League and Football League clubs have black managers - Darlington's Gary Bennett and Exeter's Noel Blake.
Sheffield United and Leeds United were among the clubs which had implemented many, if not all, of the recommendations.
Leeds's Peter Ridsdale: Leading the way
Leeds Chairman Peter Ridsdale prides his club on leading the way in fighting racism - despite figures suggesting the club had more arrests for racist chanting last season than any other team in the Premiership.
"It's one thing having the policy and the second thing is to make sure it's working," Mr Ridsdale said.
"So every so often what you need to do is audit whether or not what we set in place in company policies is actually happening in practice."
But Manchester United chief executive Peter Kenyon argued that such targets were not necessary.
"All the activities that we are embarking upon... is based on reaching the broadest possible cross-section, so we don't take the view of targeting specific minorities," he said.
Word of mouth
Mr Bradbury said most senior posts in football were filled by word of mouth.
He said this works to the advantage of ex-professionals - and thus puts people from ethnic minority communities at a disadvantage.
We don't take the view of targeting specific minorities
Manchester United chief executive Peter Kenyon
"Since we have no Asian professionals, that then gravitates against the recruitment of Asian coaches," he gave as an example.
Gurbux Singh, chairman of the Campaign for Racial Equality (CRE), says the study's findings are "disappointing".
"It saddens me that clubs appear not to attach too great an importance to the problems of racism within football," he said.
He admitted that the mere fact of poor ethnic minority representation did not necessarily suggest "racism".
Young Asian players have not broken through.
Clubs should be asking themselves - why is that?
CRE chairman Gurbux Singh
"But what is clear is that there are a number of problems which do actually exist," he said.
"It is absolutely clear that over the last 10 to 15 years black players have broken into professional football.
"There is no doubt about that and that is to be welcomed but it is also true
that young Asian players have not broken through.
"The issue here is that
football clubs should be asking themselves - why is that?"
WATCH/LISTEN
ON THIS STORY
The BBC's Barnie Choudury
"Researchers believe parts of the game are institutionally racist"
Former player and manager Chris Kamara
"People are not being suppressed because of their colour"
The BBC's Barney Choudrey
"Most recruit by word of mouth"
See also:
07 Aug 01 | UK
Fighting football racism in the community
19 Sep 00 | UK
Tackling racism in soccer
24 Nov 00 | UK
Institutional racism tag 'over-used'
22 Dec 99 | UK
Fans and clubs at loggerheads
Internet links:
Football Task ForceFA Carling PremiershipCRE: Kicking Racism Out of FootballFootball LeagueLeicester University Research Groups
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
Top UK stories now:
Postcode lottery in GP services
Leanne killer jailed for life
Tories attack Brixton drugs scheme
Straw defends arms sales change
IVF mix-up heads for court
Police shoot man on the M6
New challenge excites Venables
Judge urges life sentence shake-up
Links to more UK stories are at the foot of the page.
E-mail this story to a friend
Links to more UK stories
In This Section
Postcode lottery in GP services
Leanne killer jailed for life
Tories attack Brixton drugs scheme
Straw defends arms sales change
IVF mix-up heads for court
Police shoot man on the M6
New challenge excites Venables
Judge urges life sentence shake-up
Channel 4 boss warns of cuts
Inquiry into warship accident
Chicken checked for BSE
Home collapses after council dig
Schoolboy 'murdered for £10 debt'
'Scout leader' guilty of sex offences
Blair's right-hand men under the spotlight
Parents to sue over epilepsy row
Parents' court battle over MMR jab
Scots killed in Alps fall
Margaret Cook blasts 'NHS meddling'
Drumcree violence 'unacceptable'
Transplant first for cancer patient
Husband jailed for rape attack
GM crop trial sites announced
Britain 'sheltering al-Qaeda leader'
Healthy eating in schools 'backfires'
Political donation rules 'being broken'
Soap actor killed in holiday fall
Church debates links with state
Troubled start to marching season
Link between poverty and truancy
Mobile phone giant denies pension risk
Clampdown on illegal food imports
Abortion plans 'irresponsible'
Disabled pulled from burning minibus
Blunkett to review police reforms
'My mission with the UK marines'
Facing up to life with HIV
Blame it on the driver
Phones, tones and mobile music
Amazing tales from Planet Tabloid
The return of the seagulls
Does my bum look big in this Boeing?
Quiz of the week's news
Papers capture Drumcree violence
^^ Back to top
News Front Page | World | UK | UK Politics | Business | Sci/Tech | Health | Education | Entertainment | Talking Point | In Depth
| AudioVideo
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To BBC Sport>> | To BBC Weather>>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------© MMIII | News Sources | Privacy
