BBC News - Muslim and Sikh boxers fight to overturn beard ban
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
BBC NEWS CHANNEL
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 03:45 GMT, Wednesday, 13 January 2010
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Muslim and Sikh boxers fight to overturn beard ban
By Catrin Nye
BBC Asian Network
Mohammed Patel has been stopped from fighting because he has a beard
Muslim and Sikh groups are challenging a ruling which bans amateur boxers from the ring if they have a beard.The Amateur Boxing Association of England (ABAE) recently ruled that all fighters had to be clean shaven to allow cuts to the face to be seen. It came after Mohammed Patel, a 25-year-old bearded Muslim boxer from Bolton, was stopped from competing last January. At the time, ABAE rules stated only Sikh fighters were exempt, so the Bolton Council of Mosques challenged the ABAE on Mr Patel's behalf.
Mohammed was actually very upset, he said 'I was that upset... I went straight out to the takeaway and got myself a big doner kebab'
Inayat Omarji, Bolton Council of Mosques
But the ABAE then ruled all competitors had to be clean shaven, a decision both Muslim and Sikh groups want reversed, particularly as professional fighters have been allowed facial hair for more than 20 years. Inayat Omarji, Children and Young People's manager at Bolton Council of Mosques, told BBC Asian Network he is fighting on behalf of Mr Patel, who has been left disheartened by the row. "Mohammed was actually very upset," said Mr Omarji. "He said 'I was that upset, I trained for it, I did all my diets and everything and when I heard I went straight into the takeaway and got myself a big doner kebab'. "That is a big thing because when a young lad actually starts boxing, he has to have... mental and physical fitness... he was really, really down. "It has raised the awareness of different people who have different religious commitments, cultural commitments. "And in this day and age, they have to accept and work with the different communities." 'Petty go'Dr Indarjit Singh, director of the Network of Sikh Organisations said: "I was astounded that they should make a ruling that is so insensitive, knowing that it will disadvantage at least one religious community. "It's such a petty go at the beard. It's a sport and it has some risks but the hair does not really in any way increase those risks. "It's a perverse retrograde step that should be challenged."
It has nothing to do with race, only health and safety
Barry Jones, Amateur Boxing Association of England
But the ABAE's national child protection and equity manager, Barry Jones, said the rule was there to protect boxers. "The ruling has come from our international governing body - the International Amateur Boxing Association. It has nothing to do with race, only health and safety. "Our medical commission have deemed that facial hair can cause abrasions to opponents faces... and most importantly doctors say clean shaven athletes allow them to see cuts during the fight. "Cuts aren't allowed in amateur, Olympic-style, boxing. We are completely different to the professional circuit." Mr Jones conceded the previous ruling, that Sikh boxers were the exception to the rule, had been a mistake.
Professional boxers are allowed to wear beards in the ring
"That was five or six years ago, by a different board at the Boxing Council of England and was an error of judgement in my opinion. They didn't consider the implications. "It's not been a matter of concern before and we have hundreds of Sikhs and Muslims in the sport - that includes of course Amir Khan and Prince Naseem Hamed. "It's the way it is, it's not unusual for a boxer to be told to shave right up until weigh-in time." But it is a different matter for professional boxers. Fighters can be asked to trim facial hair if a beard is considered too bushy by the referee, but the British Boxing Board of Control said a complete ban was overturned because of the diversity of religions involved in the sport. 'Underground' boxingAt Bolton Lads and Girls Club, Mohammed Patel's fellow amateur boxers are training as usual. One boxer, Liam, from Bolton said: "If I wanted to do boxing that much I would shave my beard off and do the boxing. "It's nothing about my religion. You've got to respect the rules of the game." Sheryar, a young Muslim, also from Bolton, said: "We have beards so we can't fight, that's not a good reason for it. "You can't destroy someone's career because of his beard." The club's boxing manager Phil Marsh said he was worried that if beards were banned from amateur boxing competitions then young Sikh and Muslim men could get in to unofficial, unregulated boxing circuits. "There needs to be an outlet for Muslim young men that wear beards in terms of how they box competitively. "We've got so many young people that will want to box competitively and it's finding that nice route and not driving it underground to any of the unlicensed boxing that's going on at the minute." You can hear more at 1230 and 1800 GMT on the
BBC's Asian Network Reports
or via the
BBC iPlayer.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
BBC Religion
Video, audio, features, local coverage and much more
MORE RELIGION COVERAGE
STORIES
Archbishop comments on condoms
Death 'looms for Saudi sorcerer'
US 'Christian militants' charged
Church abuse hotline in Germany
ANALYSIS
Wisconsin's abuse anguish
What did the Pope know about alleged US abuse?
Pope's letter breaks taboo
Vatican on defensive
Paedophile priest left unmolested
Uganda gay law ripples through Africa
Voodoo helps quake victims
RELIGION DIARY
Faith Falls Down Under
Atheism makes inroads in the Old and New Worlds.
Tiger's choice
Whose God is Allah?
AUDIO & VIDEO NEWS
Archbishop: Contraception is "attractive"
Pope 'failed to act' on child abuse
Halal fast food row in France
Church attacks Labour's record
SEE ALSO
Facial hair order for servicemen
28 Mar 07 |
Highlands and Islands
Boxing ban on bearded Taleban
26 Oct 98 |
South Asia
RELATED BBC LINKS
Asian Network Reports
BBC iplayer
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Amateur Boxing Association of England
Bolton Council of Mosques
Network of Sikh Organisations
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP ENGLAND STORIES
Ex-MI6 man admits secrecy breach
Tests on flats fire arrest woman
Wave Hub project 'is going ahead'
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Former army Captain says British troops 'under-resourced'
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 33,043 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
