Brighton & Hove Link | Brighton Local Involvement Network - B&H Link.
Brighton & Hove LINk
Text size A A A |
High Contrast |
Text Only |
Print this Page
Home
Home
About Link
About Link
Get Involved
Get Involved
Our Work
Our Work
News
News
Your Issues
Your Issues
Contact
Contact
Get Involved!
Sign up now and have your say...
Tel. 01273 810 235
Brighton and Hove LINk is now closed!
From the 1st of April 2013 Brighton and Hove LINk is being replaced by Healthwatch Brighton and Hove, a new health watchdog for our city.
Healthwatch is a brand new service which replaced Brighton and Hove LINk in April 2013. In the next few months their website will be developed to provide you with all the latest news and information about Healthwatch’s services and how you can get involved. You can see the new website and check out the latest developments here: www.healthwatchbrightonandhove.co.uk
In the meantime please do sign up to our monthly newsletter by emailing your full name, email and postal address to: info@healthwatchbrightonandhove.co.uk, or using the box below.
Independent Complaints Advocacy Service (ICAS)
If you are considering making a complaint against your NHS care or treatment, please see the Brighton & Hove Impetus website www.bh-impetus.org or call them on 01273 229002. When you call 01273 229002, you will be asked to leave your name and telephone number and a member of Impetus staff will aim to return your phone call within 1 working day.
The Impetus office is open on Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm.
Contacting Healthwatch Brighton and Hove
If you would like to contact Healthwatch Brighton and Hove in the meantime, please use the following contact details.
Email: info@healthwatchbrightonandhove.co.uk
Phone: 01273 810235
Address: Healthwatch Brighton and Hove c/o Community and Voluntary Sector Forum Brighton Junction 1A Isetta Square 35 New England Street Brighton BN1 4GQ
Facebook: www.facebook.com/healthwatchbrightonandhove
Twitter: @HealthwatchBH
Sign-up to Healthwatch Brighton and Hove!
Sign up to Healthwatch Brighton and Hove, the new organisation which will be replacing LINks from the 1st April.
First NameYour email addressLast NamePostal Code
The LINk Farewell Event took place on the 14th March 2013. An event report, slides from the presentations given on the day, and a summary of the evaluation form data is now all available.
Latest Tweets
Follow us on Twitter
Latest News |
Terms & Conditions |
Sitemap |
Privacy Policy |
Accessibility |
Contact Us
Website designed by Ph.Creative®
Hosted by Community Voluntary Sector Forum | Registered Charity No.1087481 | Copyright © 2012
