The Doctors' Support Network - Home page
Doctors' Support Network peer support for doctors and medical students with mental health concerns
Home
News
&me anti stigma campaign
About DSN
Fundraising for DSN
Publicity
DSN Stigma Survey 2014
Join DSN
DSN activities
DSN newsletter
Support for doctors
Professional
Financial
Reading Resources
Events
2016 DSN events
2015 DSN events
2014 DSN events
2013 DSN events
2012 DSN events
2011 DSN events
2010 DSN events
Wellbeing
Caring
Creativity
Learning
Reflections
Thinking
Etc.
Contact DSN
Are you a doctor or medical student with a mental health problem?    You are not the only one.
The Doctors' Support Network (DSN)
is a fully confidential, friendly peer support group for doctors and medical students
with mental health concerns including stress, burnout, anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, psychoses and eating disorders.
Doctors are MORE likely than non doctors to have a mental health problem but can find it difficult to seek help, often leading to long delays in diagnosis and treatment.Doctors and medical students with mental health problems often feel isolated and as if they are the only one with a problem.The good news is that doctors and medical students with mental health problems make excellent recoveries with appropriate support and treatment.
DSN believes that contact with and support from other medics can help recovery.  All DSN members have either themselves been troubled at some stage in their lives or support the aims of the organisation. DSN is currently the only independent body representing doctors with non substance use related, mental health conditions in the UK.  ​ DSN actively campaigns to improve mental health care for doctors and is involved in consultations (representing an informed user view) with professional organisations such as the General Medical Council.
Please note
DSN membership is in addition to and not a substitute for personal healthcare from relevant medical professionals e.g. general practice, occupational health specialists, psychiatry or psychologists.  DSN does not provide individual support for doctors involved in General Medical Council processes.  (Support for doctors about whom a complaint has been made to the GMC is available from the Doctor Support Service provided by the BMA - click HERE
for a link.  This support is also available to non BMA members.)​DSN does not provide one to one counselling or refer individuals to specialist services.​DSN is a charity, run by volunteer members in their spare time.  DSN is entirely funded by members' donations.
Join DSN
DSN members say : 'It is so reassuring to know now that DSN exists as it makes me feel less alone with the problem of illness as a doctor.'​​ ' ... meeting others with similar experiences and getting support ''I've had invaluable support and advice over the years I've been a member.'
NEWS
Go to our NEWS
page for recent stories about doctors' mental health and DSN.
Click on the logo to find out more about our anti stigma campaign '&me'
Sponsor Kerrie - our Virgin Money London Marathon 2017 runner! Kerrie Wallis, our runner says'I am delighted to be running the London Marathon for DSN. I have been a GP for over 10 years, currently working in Wiltshire.  I
am embarrassed to say I had not heard of DSN until a GP friend highlighted them and their charity place in the London Marathon.Your support is crucial to get me to finish the marathon.  I'm very enthusiastic and training hard however although I've run 10k races in the distant past I haven't tried run a marathon before.  Our two daughters aged 4 and 18 months can't wait to be cheerleaders!'Follow the link below to sponsor Kerrie :
Kerrie Wallis' Virgin Money Giving page
Patron - Dr Phil Hammond
Phil Hammond
is a doctor, journalist, broadcaster, campaigner and comedian.  He qualified as a GP in 1991 and currently works in a specialist NHS centre for children and adolescents with chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME).The General Medical Council has said of Phil 'A comedian trapped in a doctor’s body.’
Phil says of DSN ' If we want to have a better health service, we have to look after the people working in it.  Sadly, those who care the most often find it hardest to ask for help when they're struggling to cope.  That's why I am proud to be a patron of the Doctors' Support Network.  Mental illness can happen to us all, and it is vital that doctors know where to get help and support.
'
DSN & External Engagement
The Doctors' Support Network is pleased to be involved in doctors' health related events or consultations with other organisations.
We have recently contributed to the GMC 'Fitness to Practise' consultation and the BMA 'Listening and Learning' event.  We have also previously provided speakers on lived experience of doctors' health issues for relevant meetings.If you wish to invite DSN to take part in a doctors' health related event or consultation, please contact the Chair via the form below.
DSN External Engagement Enquiry
Name:
Email:
Message:
Thank you for contacting us.We will get back to you as soon as possible
Oops, there was an error sending your message.Please try again later
DSN Mailing List Please complete the form below if you would like to receive occasional updates about DSN by email.
DSN mailing list
First name:
Last name :
Email:
Thank you for contacting us.We will add your email address to our mailing list.
Oops, there was an error sending your message.Please try again later
Follow us
Share
Tweet
Share
Share
Mail
DisclaimerAll opinions  expressed on this website are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily reflect an official position of DSN.  DSN cannot accept responsibility for any actions taken as a result of content of the website.  Links to other organisations are provided for information only and are not a recommendation.  In particular, you may want to check about confidentiality when contacting other organisations.
Donate to DSN with PayPal
The Doctors' Support NetworkRegistered charity : England & Wales 1103741 Scotland SC046980© 2017 All rights reserved
Create your business website with
Website Builder.
Share by:
