Effectiveness bank home page
Home
Mailing list
Search
Subject search
Text search
Browse
Research bulletins to date
Findings magazine archive
Hot topics
Latest selection
All hot topics
Matrices
What are they?
Alcohol Treatment Matrix
Drug Treatment Matrix
About
History of Findings
About our research analyses
Topics we cover
Reactions to the project
Project team
Our partners and their services
User survey findings
Help
Technical problems
Copyright permissions
Trigger email to Findings
Contact
Trigger email to Findings
Email address:editor@findings.org.uk
Phone:0208 888 6277
Responding to drug and alcohol use in Britain
Linking practice to research
Findings editor
Click photo to
view videos,
here to contact
Supported by
Society for the Study of Addiction
Working with
Alcohol Policy UK
European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction
Free Adobe software to view PDF documents
Follow @mike_ashton_
Drug and Alcohol Findings bridges the divide between
UK-relevant research on the effectiveness of responses to drug and alcohol
problems and the practitioners who provide those interventions. The project aims
to encapsulate the studies’ findings, set them in context and explore
implications for practice. From 1999 to 2006 its main output was the
Findings magazine, now replaced by this free web-based service.
is led by the editor
Mike Ashton, supported by Alcohol Research UK and the Society for the Study of Addiction and advised by the National Addiction Centre.
More
about the project including how to
link to this site ...
About the
documents on this site and permissions to
copy and adapt ...
What readers say
about Findings and results of the
latest site user survey ...
The complementary
information services provided by the project's supporters ...
Apologies for the temporary suspension of the search and download facilities on
the DRUG AND ALCOHOL FINDINGS web site http://findings.org.uk on the morning of
26th August 2008. This was due to maintenance work by our internet service
providers who were upgrading their database servers. Normal service should be
resumed within an hour.
SUBJECT or
WORD SEARCH
Search this site for documents on specific subjects or which contain your
chosen words. Searches include both types of documents described to the left.
BROWSE MAGAZINE
Browse back issues of the Findings magazine in the traditional issue by issue
format. Also gives one-button access to multi-part articles analysing priority
topics in depth.
RESEARCH ARCHIVE
Keep up to date with the most important research and its implications for
drug and alcohol interventions. Latest issue and archive of bulletins analysing
evaluation studies.
HOT TOPICS Latest one-click searches on issues which arouse debate
and comment due to their importance and/or significant differences of opinion
over facts or interpretation. Cumulated hot topics in
archive.
ALCOHOL and
DRUG treatment
MATRICES. 5x5 evidence grids reflecting practical divisions in the
delivery and organisation of services. Within each cell the major research
landmarks, reviews, and expert guidance.
“If you read nothing else, these are the documents you should read.”
Add me to mailing list
Enter and send e-mail address below for a
free service alerting you to site updates and recent evaluation studies and
reviews with important practice implications
Leaving the site? Please help us evaluate, sustain
and develop the service by giving us your feedback. This brief survey takes just
one minute to complete.
Click here to complete survey. Thank you!
