Equality and Diversity Forum | Equality and Diversity Forum
Home
About Us
Get Involved
Info Bank
EDF Resources
eNewsletter
Contact Us
Site Guide
Advanced Search
Training
Info BankEquality and Europe
Briefings and leaflets
Campaigns and projects
Consultations
Debate
Events
Newsletters and journals
Online resources
Organisation Search
Parliamentary Group
Policy and law
Public Sector Equality Duty
Research and reports
Training and guidance
Vacancies and grants
RSS Feed
iCalendar
About these Feeds
facebook
Twitter
Subject TagsAge – Young People
Age – Older People
Disability
Gender
Gender Identity
Good relations/cohesion
Human Rights
Race/ethnicity
Religion or Belief
Sexual Orientation
Beyond 2015
Opens in new window
Public Sector Equality Duty microsite
Opens in new window
EDF Research Network
Opens in new window
Equally Ours
Opens in new window
eNewsletter sign-up
Equality and Human Rights News
Welcome to the website of the Equality and Diversity Forum, a national network of equality and human rights organisations. This website brings together a wide range of equality and human rights information and resources provided by EDF and other organisations.
UKIM submission: Disability Rights in the UK
The UK Independent Mechanism published a report on the rights of disabled people under the CRPD in February 2017. It noted that "the UK and devolved governments have not taken all the appropriate steps to progress the implementation of the Convention."Read more »
EDF and Government response – NHS charging proposals
Responses to a consultation on proposals to further extend charging for overseas visitors and migrants who use the NHS; including the Royal College of Nursing, the TUC, and the Race Equality Foundation.
The Government responded in February 2017.Read more »
Cloisters column part two – ‘Premature Labelling? A child-centred approach to questions of gender identity’
Leading equality and human rights barristers from Cloisters chambers give a monthly practical insight into key legal developments. This is part two of a two-part series on trans rights.Read more »
Work and Pensions Committee report – the Disability Employment Gap
The House of Commons Work and Pensions Committee published their report on the disability employment gap in February 2017.
The report noted that "Recent years have seen an increase in the number of disabled people in work, but too many disabled people are still being left behind in the labour market.Read more »
Women and Equalities Committee – equalities review of 2015 spending and Government response
The Women and Equalities Select Committee published a report on equalities impact assessments around the 2015 Spending Review and Autumn Statement in November 2016. The Government responded to the report in January 2017 Read more »
Fawcett Society review – Sex Discrimination Law
The Fawcett Society launched a review into sex discrimination law in post-Brexit Britain in January 2017. The review also considered current laws and how to best balance the rights of the individual with the responsibilities of the organisation.Read more »
Women and Equalities Committee report on workplace pregnancy discrimination and Government response
The Women and Equalities Committee report on Pregnancy and maternity discrimination calls for UK women to have protections similar to those in Germany after a 'shocking' increase in workplace pregnancy discrimination over the past decade. In January 2017 the Government responded to the report. Read more »
Women & Equalities and Petitions Committees report on high heels and workplace dress codes
The Women and Equalities Committee and the Petitions Committee of the House of Commons published a joint report on high heels and workplace dress codes in January 2017.Read more »
Government Consultation and EDF Response – Reforming the Employment Tribunal system
The Government launched a consultation on reforming the Employment Tribunal system in December 2016. We responded to this consultation in January 2017.Read more »
Women and Equalities Committee inquiry: Are fathers being failed in the workplace?
The Women and Equalities Committee launched an inquiry in January 2017 as new research reveals that many fathers do not feel supported in the workplace to care for their children. The Committee is receiving written submissions from both organisations and individuals. Submissions should be received by 1 March 2017.Read more »
MHT Report and Government Response – The Five Year Forward View for Mental Health
The Mental Health Taskforce produced The Five Year Forward View for Mental Health in February 2016, making 58 recommendations to achieve parity of esteem between mental and physical health.
The Government responded in January 2017.Read more »
Joint Committee on Human Rights report on the human rights implications of Brexit
The Joint Committee on Human Rights published an interim report on the human rights implications of Brexit in December 2016. Read more »
Mapping The Great Repeal: European Union Law And The Protection Of Human Rights
Angela Patrick, from Doughty Street Chambers, produced a background paper for the Thomas Paine Initiative, entitled 'Mapping The Great Repeal: European Union Law And The Protection Of Human Rights', published in December 2016.
Read more »
The Bach Commission on access to justice: EDF response and interim report
The Fabian Society is providing the secretariat to Lord Willy Bach’s Commission on Access to Justice, which will explore establishing access to justice as a fundamental public entitlement. The deadline for submissions passed in May 2016. In November 2016 the Commission published an interim report, 'The crisis in the justice system in England & Wales'.Read more »
Women and Equalities Committee inquiry on ensuring strong equalities legislation after EU exit
The Women and Equalities Select Committee launched an inquiry into ensuring strong equalities legislation following EU exit in October 2016. The deadline for submissions was Wednesday 9 November 2016. The Equality and Diversity Forum made a written submission. Other submissions can be seen on the Committee website.Read more »
Lammy Review of BAME representation in the Criminal Justice System – emerging findings published
The Lammy Review into BAME representation in the criminal justice system has launched its call for evidence. The review will look at the way the CJS deals with young people and adults from BAME backgrounds. The review published an interim report in November 2016.Read more »
Government audit to tackle racial disparities in public service outcomes
On 27 August 2016, the Prime Minister Theresa May launched an audit of public services to reveal racial disparities and to help end the injustices that many people experience.Read more »
EHRC report on ‘Prejudice and unlawful behaviour’
'Prejudice and unlawful behaviour, exploring levers for change' was published by the Equality and Human Rights Commission on 29 July 2016. Read more »
Equally Ours: Rights for Life publication on human rights
In March 2016, Equally Ours published 'Rights for Life' - sharing stories on how human rights have been used in people's lives.
Read more »
Visit the Information Bank section of this website for a wide range of equality and human rights resources
Home |
About EDF |
Objectives |
Contact Us |
Members |
Accessibility |
About RSS & iCalendar Feeds |
Terms & Conditions |
Sitemap
Copyright © 2017 Equality and Diversity Forum (registered charity no. 1135357). All Rights Reserved.
