The Griffins Society | We sponsor research to bring about change in how women and girls are dealt with in the criminal justice system
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Home
About us About Us
Vision & mission
Who we are
Objects & values
Our partners
Governance
How we are funded
History
News & events
Our Fellowships Our Fellowships
How to apply
Our fellows
Our supervisors
Our research
Impact Studies
Our Research Our Research
Our research listings
Women in Criminal Justice Women in Criminal Justice
Criminal justice publications
Further reading
Useful links
Glossary
Contact us
We sponsor research to bring about change in how women and girls are dealt with in the criminal justice system
Your are here >
Home
×
Griffins Board appoints its first fellow as a trustee to the board - Sue Matthews joins the board this month
Why we do this
'There are many women in prison, either on remand or serving sentences for minor, non-violent offences, for whom prison is both disproportionate and inappropriate. Many of them suffer poor physical and mental health or substance abuse, or both. Large numbers have endured violent or sexual abuse or had chaotic childhoods. Many have been in care.
It is timely to bring about a radical change in the way we treat women throughout the whole of the criminal justice system and this must include not just those who offend but also those at risk of offending. This will require a radical new approach, treating women both holistically and individually - a woman-centred approach.'
That was the view of Baroness Jean Corston in her seminal 2007 report, a 'review of women with particular vulnerabilities in the Criminal Justice System'.  Some things have changed for the better, but a lot remains the same or indeed worse, have gone backwards.
"	It seems to me that it is essential to do more to address issues connected with women's offending before imprisonment becomes a serious option"
Baroness Corston, 2007
How we do it
For over ten years the Society’s Research Fellowships have turned a spotlight on how women and girls are treated in the criminal justice system.
We believe that those who work directly with women and girls are best placed to see what works and what doesn't.
Through our fellowship programme and with the support of the Institute of Criminology in Cambridge and academics from across the UK, we provide them with the opportunity and the tools to carry out research with the aim of bringing about change in practice and policy.
"	It was a fantastic experience, I felt really supported by Griffins and have done ever since.
The legacy has transformed not only my life, but raised awareness amongst prison staff and also impacted on women in the sex industry in a positive manner. Who could ask for more?!"
Louise Clark, Fellow 2006 'Provision of support for imprisoned adult female street-based sex workers'
Confederation of European Probation 2016 Awards - Fellow Jean O'Neill is runner up for the Research award
The applications round for 2016 is now closed
For more information on how to apply in 2017, visit 'How to Apply'
Are you a past Fellow?
We'd love to hear from you.  Use our contacts page to get in touch.
Recent publications:
(for the full list see under Our Research/Research Listings)
The use of prison as a place of safety for women with complex mental health needs
Time after time: a study of women's transitions from custody
Losing my voice: A study of the barriers & facilitators to disclosure for sex-working women in residential drug treatment
Search form
SearchSearch
This search facility is for everything The Griffins Society has published on Women & Criminal justice. This is a growing database of material: information and research papers are added as they are completed. If you can’t find what you are looking for, please email research@thegriffinssociety.org
© The Griffins Society
The Griffins Society
27 Tooting Bec Gardens
Streatham
London
SW16 1QY
Company number: 02892836
Charity number: 1034571
Already a past fellow?
We'd love to hear from you
Email: research@thegriffinssociety.org
Telephone: +44 7879 630802
Fellowship login
Acknowledgements
Accessibility
Terms and Conditions
Cookie policy
Site map
Working in partnership with:
