Helen Bamber Foundation: Home
Skip links Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar
Helen Bamber FoundationHeader Right
Join our mailing list
Main navigationHome
About Us
What we do
Our Founder
Our Trustees
Our Staff
Governance
Careers
Our Services
Therapy
Legal
Welfare & Housing
Healthcare
Creative Arts Programme
Counter-Trafficking
Support Us
Donate
Fundraise
Volunteer
Making a Referral
News
Resources
Publications
Our Newsletter
Contact Us
Media Enquiries
Thank you so much for supporting ' The Conversation' with the Helen Bamber Foundation. We hope you had an inspirational evening, hearing the stories of our clients.Support our workRead our ‘Addressing Mental Health Needs in Survivors of Modern Slavery’ reportSupport the Helen Bamber Foundation
About us
The Helen Bamber Foundation supports refugees and asylum seekers who have experienced extreme human cruelty, such as torture and human trafficking. We provide specialist care to meet the complex needs of some of the most marginalised and vulnerable people in the world. We offer survivors specialist psychological and physical therapy, housing and welfare support, legal protection and creative arts and skills programmes to help people rebuild their lives.
How we work
Services we deliver
Counter-Trafficking
Welfare & Housing
Therapy
Healthcare
Legal
Creative Arts Programme
Our News
The Conversation: Speakers Announced
Announcement: We are thrilled to announce COLIN FIRTH will be joining The Conversation. Emma Thompson, President of the Helen Bamber…
Read more
The Conversation: 8 December 2016
The Helen Bamber Foundation is proud to host our second annual Conversation, an evening where we share the stories of…
Read more
The Story: August 2016 Newsletter
Welcome to the next edition of our newsletter. At the Helen Bamber Foundation, we are dedicated to supporting survivors of…
Read more
Home
Our Services
Donate
Contact Us
Helen Bamber Foundation
Bruges Place
15-20 Baynes Street (Entrance via Randolph Street)
Camden, London, NW1 0TF
Phone: 020 3058 2020
Fax: 020 3058 2050
Registered Charity No. 1149652
Registered Company No. 8186281
Privacy policy
