HOLES IN THE WALL | documenting parent abuse
HOLES IN THE WALL
Skip to content
HomeAboutContactEvents and TrainingReading ListResourcesStudents
← Older posts
February 15, 2017 · 2:08 pm
A National Survey for Adoptive Parents: The Reality of Physical Restraint
This is an issue that has raised its head a lot recently in connection with child to parent violence, and about which The Open Nest charity has already developed significant resources. This fact finding survey is circulated for all adoptive parents in Britain and closes at the end of February.
Please use this link to complete the survey.
Leave a comment
Filed under Research
Tagged as challenging behaviour, Child to parent violence, Physical restraint, The Open Nest
February 10, 2017 · 9:47 am
Call to Action – Knowledge Inquiry: Children who come into the care system under a voluntary arrangement
I have blogged in the past about the use of section 20 of the Children Act 1989 with families experiencing violence and abuse from their children. I know that this is an area of practice that is fraught with disagreement and potential misuse; and it has been the subject of legal discussion too of late (see here for example).
Your Family, Your Voice, an alliance of families and practitioners that has been developed by Family Rights Group to counter the stigma and negative presumptions about families whose children are subject to or at risk of state intervention, have launched an inquiry into the powers and duties which exist under section 20. You will find information about the aims of the inquiry, what form it will take, an invitation to take part – including information about focus groups – and full briefing notes on the NIROP pages linked below. Please do check it out, and contribute to the inquiry if you are affected by any of the issues.
Source: Call to Action – Knowledge Inquiry: Children who come into the care system under a voluntary arrangement
Leave a comment
Filed under Policy, Research
Tagged as Children Act 1989, Family Rights Group, NIROP, section 20, violence and abuse from children, Your Family Your Voice
February 2, 2017 · 3:20 pm
Safe Lives Spotlight on Young People
The domestic violence and abuse charity, Safe Lives, have just launched their most recent Spotlight feature, which is about young people this time round, and which runs through to the end of March.
Safe Lives Research findings:
In the third of our Spotlights series (end of Jan – end of March), we’ll be focusing on the experiences of young people (13 to 17 years) affected by domestic abuse and the professionals who support them. We’ll be answering questions such as: how can professionals adapt to meet the needs of young people? How does a young person’s experience of domestic abuse differ to an adult’s? What are the best ways to support young people who harm without criminalising them?
Through a combination of blogs, short films and podcasts, we’ll be posting the latest research, practical resources for professionals, practitioner advice/guidance and talking to young people about their experiences. Be part of the conversation through our webinar on 3rd March from 1-2pm, and the Twitter Q&A on 15th March from 1-2pm – use the hashtag #SafeYoungLives.
There will be new content uploaded on the Safe Lives website each week, including discussions about violence and abuse from young people towards their parents and carers, so keep checking regularly. I will tweet further links as they go live!
Leave a comment
Filed under Discussion, Research
Tagged as Safe Lives, Spotlight, violence and abuse from young people
January 26, 2017 · 4:34 pm
CPV survey: 1st impressions
At the end of November 2016, Al Coates, an adoptive parent and social worker, put out on social media a  survey asking parents about their experience of child to parent violence. You can read more about it here and here. He received 264 responses over a three week period, largely – unsurprisingly given the main mode of dissemination – from adoptive parents. The collation started straight away and a first paper was put out at the start of the new year. First Impressions is available from the CE&LT website, part of the University of Sunderland. Dr Wendy Thorley, of the University of Sunderland, is a member of what might broadly be termed the Steering committee for this project, and she has helped to edit the report.
The survey asked questions about a family’s experience of child to parent violence, and about the age at which it started, the impact on the family, and about the help that had been offered – or not.
There has been some concern expressed that the collection of data, and the findings themselves, are not robust and lack the necessary validity and reliability of academic research. To which the answer is that this was never intended as such, but rather as an opportunity for parents to speak and to highlight issues which might perhaps warrant further future investigation. Al is now looking further at the responses received, to draw out themes that warrant greater attention, with a view to encouraging greater research. There will be further papers published, but in the meantime I leave you with this.
Leave a comment
Filed under Discussion, projects, Research
Tagged as Al Coates, CELT, Child to parent violence, CPV, Dr Wendy Thorley
January 16, 2017 · 1:33 pm
Investigating adolescent family violence, an Australian research programme
Always good to hear about new research starting up, and so it was great to hear from Rachel Condry about a major piece of research beginning in Australia in February 2017.
Investigating adolescent family violence
Investigators: Dr Kate Fitz-Gibbon, Professor Jan Coles, Associate Professor JaneMaree Maher, Professor Jude McCulloch, Dr Deborah Western
Adolescent family violence (AFV) describes violence perpetrated by young people against family members. This distinct form of family violence has a detrimental effect on the health and wellbeing of families. To date, there is limited research examining AFV, and few tailored responses and programs to address it.
Investigating adolescent family violence  is a project being conducted by a multidisciplinary team of Monash University researchers from the School of Social Sciences, the Department of General Practice, and the Department of Social Work. It will explore attitudes towards, patterns of, and the impact of AFV in Victoria. The project builds on, and compliments, work being conducted in the United Kingdom (titled Investigating adolescent violence towards parents).
This is a pilot project, funded by a Monash Affinity grant, which will build knowledge in this complex area, and form the basis of a national project. The findings will be of relevance to all Australian jurisdictions, and have the potential to inform and reform legal, health and social responses to AFV, and provide a greater understanding of ‘risk’.
Associate Professor Rachel Condry, Oxford University, the lead researcher on the UK project will conduct a workshop with Monash researchers in February 2017.
(reblogged from the Monash University website)
Leave a comment
Filed under Research
Tagged as adolescent family violence, Adolescent to parent violence, Associate Professor JaneMaree Maher, Dr Deborah Western, Dr Kate Fitz-Gibbon, Prof Jane Coles, Prof Jude McCulloch, Rachel Condry
January 4, 2017 · 2:21 pm
Wrongful arrest prompts call for change
As a new year begins most of us hope for better things to come. The last year was considered by many to have been particularly vicious in an inanimate sort of way. I do believe there is always something to celebrate if you look hard enough; and for those working the field of child to parent violence there has been, within the UK at least, an encouraging interest in training, and a period of consideration of what I have termed nuance – understanding that not all experiences of child to parent violence and abuse will be the same, with a corresponding need for varied responses.
But there have also been personal setbacks for some, with a fear that no one understands their situation. It may have been an unanswered plea for help; or they may have been at the sharp end of an investigation with false allegations made by a child against them. It is right that procedures then roll into action – allegations must be taken seriously, but this should involve a thorough and proper investigation of what has supposedly taken place. Sadly, for one mother in Tennessee, events took a rather different turn, as reported here. Whether out of prejudice, misogyny, or sheer ignorance, is not clear at this stage, but, thankfully for her, her lawyer has supported her all the way and is now calling for a review of procedures in this instance, and in general. The lawyer’s letter follows:
View this document on Scribd
The case is a stark reminder of how far we all still have to go. But we can be glad that there are those willing to take up the baton, to raise understanding and to work for change.
Wishing you a happier new year in 2017!
2 Comments
Filed under news reports
Tagged as Child to parent violence, child to parent violence and abuse
December 28, 2016 · 11:37 am
Mutual Expectations – a charter for parents and local authority services
Always worth reminding ourselves about the hopes, expectations – and entitlements – of those we work with as professionals. This Charter has been developed by a partnership of parents and practitioners, as part of the work of Your Family, Your Voice Alliance: An alliance of families and professionals working together to transform the system. It aims to promote effective, mutually respectful partnership working between practitioners and families when children are subject to statutory intervention. Such intervention can involve child welfare and family justice, mental health, education and youth justice systems.
The Charter is written for parents, local authorities and their partner agencies and those working for them.
Follow the alliance on twitter @yrfamilyyrvoice.
I am grateful to The National IRO Managers Partnership for bringing it to wider attention.
Source: ‘Mutual Expectations – a charter for parents and local authority services’ – @yrfamilyyrvoice
Leave a comment
Filed under projects
Tagged as Mutual Expectations, NIROP, Your Family Your Voice
← Older posts
DOCUMENTING PARENT ABUSE
A blog by Helen Bonnick
"I look at the holes in the wall and think, 'God I remember that day'."
(interview with parent, 2006)
BLOGROLL
Alternative Restoratives
Step-Up
Family Lives
Eddie Gallagher
Respect
Ministry of Parenting
Adfam
4 Children
Paars
Adolescent to Parent Violence Project (Oxford)
YUVA
DAPHNE RCPV project
Rosalie Ryrie Foundation
Action for Children
Adolescent Violence in the Home
The Open Nest: Post adoption support
Breaking the Cycle (USA)
Safe Lives (previously CAADA)
Who's in Charge? (UK)
Youth Justice Board (England and Wales)
LCT services (NVR training, Ireland)
Child to parent violence in Ireland
@HelenBonnick
RT @RachelStaff1: @mumdrah have just read all of your blogs. Powerful and eloquent. Should be a must read for all professionals! 				1 hour ago
RT @ThorleyW: @mumdrah @GayAdoptionDad I find it incredible how misunderstood CPV is. Lets hope together we are loud enough to encourage ch… 				9 hours ago
RT @Mrsjellies: @IsabelleTrowler @DfE @helenbonnick @AUKAdopterVoice
@ThePOTATOgroup @seethrujustice
Coercive cont'l
is a diff in CpV… 				10 hours ago
Impact of Child on Parent Violence (CPV) examined
-
adoptionuk.org/news/impact-ch… 10 hours ago
RT @daddydonal: @mumdrah to greater or lesser extents cpv is part of many of our realities. Ppl need to know it, without blaming kids. 				1 day ago
HOLES IN THE WALL · documenting parent abuse
Blog at WordPress.com.
HOLES IN THE WALL
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
