Homeless Link |
Homeless Link
Let's endhomelessness together
Search form
Search
Find homelessness services in England
MenuHome
About us
Our work
Facts
Membership
Products
InfoNews
What's on?
Jobs
Tackling multiple disadvantage:
Combining lived experience, research, policy and practice.
Book now for event in Milton Keynes…
Join Homeless Link
We represent organisations working to end homelessness in England - campaigning on their behalf and working to help improve the support they offer. If you share our vision of a country free from homelessness, then become a member. Read more
Our vision is of a country free of homelessness
We represent more than 500 homelessness organisations
We work towards better knowledge, policy and awareness
We help improve support for people to rebuild their lives
Campaigns
Improving policy, attitudes and commissioning - keeping homelessness on everyone's agenda.
Resources
Up to date practical tools to help you achieve the best for the people you support.
Latest news & blogs
Help Shape the Future: Multiple Needs Summit 8-9 May 2017 in Milton Keynes 15 Feb 2017 Every Drug Strategy since John Major’s government has acknowledged that tackling drug dependence...
Staying alive: Mental Health service interventions for people sleeping rough 9 Feb 2017 Read Paul Emerson's engaging blog discussing the topic of rough sleeping and mental health...
Will the housing White Paper make a difference to homelessness? 9 Feb 2017 The Government has launched their housing White Paper, ‘Fixing our Broken Housing Market.’ What...
Upcoming events & training
Tackling multiple disadvantage 8 May 2017 to 9 May 2017 Combining lived experience, research, policy and practice.
A practical guide to psychologically informed environments
22 February 2017 Find out why commissioning and delivering a psychologically informed environment has social and...
Supported Housing: shaping the future 14 March 2017 Sitra and Homeless Link members are invited to join us for this special one day conference,...
Become a Member of Homeless Link
Join more than 500 organisations working to end homelessness in England.
How informed is your service?
In-Form: the complete client relationship and service management system - helping you prove the value of your service.
Concerned about someone sleeping rough?
Help connect them to local support. Visit streetlink.org.uk or download the app.
Jobs in homelessness
Browse the latest paid and unpaid opportunities from Homeless Link and our members.
Address
Homeless Link
Gateway House
Milverton Street
London SE11 4AP
Company number 4313826
Charity number 1089173
Info
Contact us
Pay an invoice
Sitemap
Cookies policy
Privacy and data
Terms of use
Donate
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Crafted by Tincan
