Designed by experience - the new manifesto to end homelessness | Homeless Link
Homeless Link
Let's endhomelessness together
Search form
Search
Find homelessness services in England
MenuHome
About us
Our work
Facts
Membership
Products
InfoNews
What's on?
Jobs
Designed by experience - the new manifesto to end homelessness
Jacqui McCluskey
Wednesday, 14 January 2015 - 12:00am
We've published Let's make the difference, a new manifesto to end homelessness based on expert views from across the homelessness sector.
Last summer, we asked people experiencing homelessness and the services that support them what the next government could do to end homelessness.
The result is Let's make the difference: a manifesto to end homelessness. Published today and presented at our House of Lords reception this afternoon, it sets out five priority actions that will make the biggest difference for many thousands of people who become homeless in England.
The new manifesto in brief
In the manifesto we call on the next government to take action on five key areas: rough sleeping, employment, housing, support for people with the most complex needs, and long-term strategy. We set out practical steps that will enable homelessness services to innovate and support people who become homeless to thrive.
Here is a top level overview of the message we're sending to politicians today. Click here to download the full manifesto (PDF).
Download Let's make the difference: a manifesto to end homelessness
This manifesto, based on the views of people who have experienced homelessness in England and those who support them, sets out priority actions the new government can take to make the greatest difference to homelessness.
Downloads
Make the Difference - a manifesto to end homelessness.pdf | 1126K
News
Press notices
Blogs
Features
Press desk
Write for us
Sign up for our news email alerts
When someone feels safe they will thrive. Their connection with the community can grow.
A Homeless Link member
Talk To Us
Jacqui McCluskey
Director of policy and communications
Jacqui leads the externally focused policy and communications functions of Homeless Link, as well as line managing the policy director of the MEAM (Making Every Adult Matter) Coalition with Clinks, DrugScope and Mind.
Telephone:
020 7840 4429
Email:
jacqui.mccluskey@homelesslink.org.uk
Twitter:
@JacMcCluskey
Related articles
Help Shape the Future: Multiple Needs Summit 8-9 May 2017 in Milton Keynes
15 Feb 2017 - 12:53pm
Government urged to take strategic action as rough sleeping numbers continue to rise
25 Jan 2017 - 4:43pm
Vote for StreetLink at this year's @tech4goodawards #T4GStreetlink
13 Jun 2016 - 10:37am
View all
Share this page
Address
Homeless Link
Gateway House
Milverton Street
London SE11 4AP
Company number 4313826
Charity number 1089173
Info
Contact us
Pay an invoice
Sitemap
Cookies policy
Privacy and data
Terms of use
Donate
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Crafted by Tincan
