Avoiding Evicition From Your Home
Avoid & Deal With Home Repossession...
HousingRepossessions contains impartial, free advice which tells you everything you need to know to avoid repossession.
In recent months the subject of housing repossessions has been widely covered by the media.
February's Most Popular Articles...
The Role of the Bailiffs in Property Repossessions:
If a landlord or mortgage company obtains a possession order from the county court they will usually have to wait for several… [304 views in Feb]
Applying to Stop Evictions:
Once a possession order becomes enforceable, either due to the passage of time or the defendant’s failure to comply with any conditions contained in it, the… [302 views in Feb]
What Happens When Lenders Sell Repossessed Properties?:
There is a common misconception that mortgage lenders auction off repossessed properties at rock-bottom prices. In… [168 views in Feb]
Repossession for Arrears of Service Charges or Ground Rent:
In some circumstances the owner of a leasehold property could face repossession due to a failure to pay service… [120 views in Feb]
Mortgages - Words and Phrases:
Lawyers and judges are very good at using words and phrases that nobody else understands. Below is a list of some common phrases used in mortgage… [92 views in Feb]
Suspended Possession Order:
When possession cases come to court lenders usually ask for a "28-day possession order". This will entitle the lender to repossess the property after 28… [88 views in Feb]
Our Categories...
After Repossession: Repossession and Squatters, What Happens When Lenders Sell R...
Ask Our Experts: Should I Get My Property Repossessed and Declare Bankruptcy?,...
Avoiding Repossession: Getting Help with Mortgage Payments, Where to...
Forced House Sale: Selling Your House at Auction, Selling Your House Through an Estate...
Landlords & Tenants: The Costs of a Mortgage Repossession Case, Getting Your Deposit Back:...
Poor Economic Climate: The Outlook for Home Owners Mortgage Arrears,...
Repossession Process: Will the Court Give Me Time to Sell My Property?,...
Latest Comments
Bones
Re: What Happens When Lenders Sell Repossessed Properties?
My home was repossesed in 1988 they took what we owed in arrears and they made us pay our and…
19 February 2017
Jess
Re: Applying to Stop Evictions
If I pay off all my rent arrears before the eviction date,:will the court still evict me
17 February 2017
Demelzza
Re: What Happens When Lenders Sell Repossessed Properties?
Hello
My home was repossessed 8 years ago and I never knew what the property sold for. Last…
14 February 2017
Fearnie
Re: Do I Have a Legally Binding Tenancy?
We wanted to sell our mortgaged house to a landlord and stay in it, paying him rent. Profits would pay off the mortgage…
1 February 2017
Flaps
Re: Repossession of Property With Commercial Premises
I am a tenant in a property that is being foreclosed by the bank and I wish to buy it once they take…
31 January 2017
HousingRepossessions
Re: Applying to Set Aside or Vary a Possession Order
KitKat - Your Question:I moved into my rented home (B'ham council) with my two daughters in 2003. I…
30 January 2017
KitKat
Re: Applying to Set Aside or Vary a Possession Order
I moved into my rented home (B'ham council) with my two daughters in 2003. I received IS/HB/CTB and in…
29 January 2017
PhilC
Re: The Role of the Bailiffs in Property Repossessions
A week ago yesterday my daughter and grandaughter who was living with her partner opened the door to…
27 January 2017
Lizzy
Re: Who Should Receive Notice of a Mortgage Repossession Case?
my home has been repossed. I have to leave in 2 weeks. I am appilying for an extension as…
23 January 2017
Maureen
Re: Repossession and Buy-to-let Properties
I currently have a Buy to let property. The payments have been erratic last year I suffered 3rd degree burns and was…
23 January 2017
Featured...
What Are House Buyers Looking For?
What Are Introductory Tenancies?
Contact Us
Sitemap
About HousingRepossessions
Home
You should seek independent professional advice before acting upon any information on the HousingRepossessions website. Please read our Disclaimer.
© HousingRepossessions 2000-2017
Terms & Privacy
