Home :: Public Health England - Improving Health and Lives
Note: JavaScript is recommended to make full use of the website
Hear page
| Accessibility | Log in | Register
AboutNumbersProjectsNews & CommentaryEventsLinksLet's TalkPublications
Where I am: Start Page
Start Page
Your web browser doesn't seem to support any of our video formats.
If you are using a modern graphical browser and would like to see videos, you may be able to install Adobe Flash Player.
Otherwise, you can let us know you don't want to see videos and you won't see this message again.
The Improving Health and Lives Learning Disabilities Observatory is here to keep watch on
the health of people with learning disabilities
the health care they receive
We have a website that provides a lot of information.
We are doing a number of projects.
To find the different sorts of information we provide, look at the links at the top of the page.
If you have questions about the team, you may find answers on our page of Frequently Asked Questions.
If you would like to find out more about Public Health England, which we are a part of, you should visit the Public Health England website
Advisory Group
The Improving Health and Lives advisory group of self-advocates and family carers started again on the 25th November 2013.
The IHaL team is working with Changing our Lives, Inclusion East and Inclusion North to hold two advsiory group meetings a year.
The advisory group will inform and influence the work of IHaL.
The section of the website contains all the information from the meeting held in November.
You can see information about the work of the advisory group here terms of reference and the meeting notes.
John Newton talks about the future of the Learning Disabilities observatory
Gyles Glover talks about hospital admissions that don't need to happen.
Read Gyles' report
More Improving Health and Lives videosLearning Disability Profiles
Numbers for learning disabilities and health in your area.
Acute Liaison Nurses
Find your nearest Acute Liaison Nurse.
Latest News
The Learning Disabilities Health and Care Programme
Working with Public Health England, NHS Digital has published the first findings from the new Learning Disabilities Health and Care dataset.
This dataset which draws anonymised, non-personal data from GP practice information systems provides information about the structure of the population of people with learning disabilities known to their GP in local areas and details of the frequency of major and common health problems and the care they receive for them.
More details of the information collected are set out on our project page
Full details, including an introductory report, an interactive browser and full technical information can be found on the NHS Digital publication website.
Information request
Information request for your stories, examples of your work and resources that relate to pharmacy in community and primary care and in acute hospitals.
Read more newsRead national news from Public Health England
CIPOLD was a Confidential Inquiry into premature deaths of people with learning disabilities that took place between 2010 and 2013. Funded by the Department of Health, it aimed to improve the health and well-being of people with learning disabilities by carrying out an inquiry into their death.
Read more about the Confidential Inquiry.
© Public Health England 2017
| Terms of use | Privacy policy | Accessibility | Contact us
