Innovations in dementia community interest company - working with people with dementia to develop innovative ideas to improve quality of life for people with dementia
Innovations in Dementia CIC
About Innovations in dementia
Who
we are
Innovative
projects
Working
with us
Films
by people with dementia
Resources
News
innovative ideas to improve quality of
life for people with dementia
Latest news ...
Two new booklets were launch at Dementia Congress 2016
Making an Impact Together - draws on the experience of dementia activist groups which are members of the UK-wide DEEP network. The guide covers topics such as setting up a group, finding allies, making change happen and dealing with challenges.It is part of an ESRC-funded project between Innovations in Dementia CIC and ECRED at the University of Edinburgh.
Our Dementia, Our Rights is a new guide which aims to highlight as simply as possible the importance of human and civil rights in ensuring support, inclusion and dignity for people with dementia. It has been co-produced with the Dementia Policy Think Tank, a group of seven people with dementia interested in influencing policy.
Issue 104 (November 2016) of the Innovations in Dementia Brain Waves newsletter is
now available to download.
Issue 104 features the development of two booklets Making an Impact Together and Our Dementia, Our Rights, and also gives details about how you can get involved in the Reading Friends project
Download Issue 104 of Brain
Waves as a PDF file
Dementia without Walls
Find out about this programme of work at www.dementiawithoutwalls.org.uk
Women's experiences of dementia
The final report for this project was launched in November 2015
find out about this project at www.dementiawomen.org.uk
Dementia Engagement and Empowerment Project DEEP
You can download new guidance notes from the Dementia Engagement and Empowerment Project (DEEP) website - find out more at DEEP Dementia Voices www.dementiavoices.org.uk
Join our network
Innovations in Dementia is a community interest company.
We work nationally with people with dementia, partner organisations and
professionals with the aim of developing and testing projects that will
enhance the lives of people with dementia.
Outcomes from such projects will influence approaches to dementia care
and support in order that they are more creative, positive and enabling.
We aim to work collaboratively with people with dementia in all our work.
We provide advice and training to other organisations to help them develop
more positive care and support services for people with dementia.
We believe that people with dementia should:
Be able to experience all that life has to offer
Receive appropriate and sensitive support to access opportunities
and learn new skills
Be part of opportunities and decisions that affect their lives
If you would like to know more, please email us at ideas@innovationsindementia.org.uk
Sign up to our email newsletter now! Send us your contact details
email newsletter@innovationsindementia.org.uk
Innovations in dementia believes in working in partnership with
other organisations to achieve the best outcomes for people with dementia.
Thank you to our partner organisations.
Contact us
Innovations in Dementia CIC, PO Box 616, Exeter, EX1 9JB
Telephone 01392 420076
Registered as a community interest company No. 06046815.
Find out more about community interest companies
© Innovations in dementia CIC 2016
Privacy statement
