Loud Minority film video production
Home
Our Work
Arts & Culture
Voluntary sector
Participatory
Research
Drama
Special Projects
Inna Vision Film School
The Tree Circle Cinema
No Fairies
Embodied Emotions
Who Is My Neighbour?
Archive
About
Contact
We are a part of those concerned with change
Loud Minority is a free range, feisty, film-making company. Our particular interests are marginalised groups, social issues, social history, mental health, education, music, arts and culture. Our specialism is participatory film-making. Community engagement is at the heart of our work.
We have a large body of diverse films in our portfolio, and more than 10 years of experience, working to the highest creative, professional and ethical standards. Our films have won awards, been broadcast and shown at festivals.
We have an excellent track record collaborating with community groups, public sector bodies, arts companies, cultural organisations and education providers.
Bolder Voices
Older people’s choir who devise and perform their own material, singing the politics of age. […]
view project
98% Proof
John Banks’ battle against alcohol addiction. Made as a participatory project with users of Isledon […]
view project
Who Opens a School…
Developed with the University of East London’s Centre for Narrative Research, led by Prof Corinne […]
view project
Altab Ali
Documentary made by young people at Tower Hamlets Summer University exploring the racist murder of […]
view project
Indian Hump – Madlib
American hip hop producer Madlib made a track called “Indian Hump”. It samples some dialogue […]
view project
Time To Change
Campaign films for the national charity that challenges stigma and discrimination around mental health. For […]
view project
The Senior BEEs
Older people’s group that explore the built environment. Part of the Building Exploratory
view project
The Tree Circle Cinema
Site specific community cinema
view project
Lions Den trailer
A film made by Ras Pablo Gad aka Stanley Aspinall, with the support of Loud […]
view project
Island Life [excerpt]
A community consultation film about Three Mills Island in Bow, East London. Looking at how […]
view project
© 2017 Loud Minority. Powered by WordPress
Volumes Theme by ThemeZilla
