Maternity Action | challenging inequality : promoting wellbeing
Maternity Action – challenging inequality : promoting wellbeing
Maternity Action
Maternity Rights Advice Line
0808 802 0029
Home
Advice
Maternity Rights Advice Line
Maternity Care Access Advice
Mums and Dads
Qs about rights at work
Know about benefits
Women from abroad
Qs about charging for NHS maternity care
Breastfeeding rights
Father or father-to-be
Same-sex partner
Adopting or surrogacy
Model letters – Maternity rights at work
Employers
Breastfeeding at work
Professionals
Information sheets
Maternity Care Access Advice
Breastfeeding at Work
Seminars and study days
Other languages
Advice in Spanish
Advice in Portuguese
Advice in Polish
Campaigns
Policy and research
Publications
Projects
News
Blog
About Us
What we do
Why is our work important?
Our success stories
Our media work
Our people
Work with us
Annual Reports
Support us
Watch our new videos
Learn about your rights at work when you are pregnant and how to deal with problems at work
Research into charging for NHS maternity care
Research into charging for NHS maternity care.
Can you help us?
Taking Action on #MaternityRights
Support our campaign to end pregnancy discrimination
Maternity Action is the UK’s leading charity committed to ending inequality and improving the health and well-being of pregnant women, partners and young children – from conception through to the child’s early years.
Advice
Mums and Dads
We offer free advice for mums and dads worried about their rights to work, benefits, tax credits and healthcare. We provide information on many issues; choose one of the options below to know your rights.
Learn More
Employers
We provide expert advice and information for employers managing pregnant women and new parents at work. Maternity Action has developed resources to help employers successfully manage and support women who wish to continue breastfeeding at work.
Learn More
Professionals
We offer training to advisors, community workers, midwives and other health professionals.
This covers rights at work and benefits.
We also provide specialist training for midwives on improving care for refugee and asylum seeking women and supporting vulnerable migrants.
Learn More
News
MEDIA RELEASE: Government response to maternity discrimination inquiry wholly inadequate
Posted on January 26, 2017
Comment
Jo Swinson, chair of Maternity Action, commented on the Government’s response to the Women and Equalities Select Committee inquiry into pregnancy and maternity-related discrimination, released today.  Jo Swinson said: “The damning evidence of the scale of maternity more »
MEDIA RELEASE: Still waiting for action on maternity discrimination
Posted on January 17, 2017
Comment
Jo Swinson, chair of Maternity Action, will today call for the Government to take swift action on maternity discrimination at work at an event in Parliament.  Alison Thewliss MP, Sarah Champion MP and Maria Miller MP are jointly more »
Blog
Modern employment or old fashioned exploitation?
Posted on February 15, 2017
Comment
Yesterday was the first of the public meetings for the Matthew Taylor review of employment rights, otherwise known as The Modern Employment Review.  Announced last November, the review promised to explore the implications of new forms of work more »
Pregnant at work
Maternity leave and...
Time off and...
Pregnant at work
This podcast aims to give you a basic introduction to your rights at work while you are pregnant, such as time off for antenatal care, health and safety at work and maternity pay, and talks about what you can do if you’re experiencing pregnancy discrimination.
Learn More
Maternity leave and return to work
This podcast talks about your rights when you are on maternity leave and what happens when you return to work, including how to ask for changes to your working hours, and what to do if you find out you’re pregnant again or you’ve decided not to go back to work.
Learn More
Time off and pay for fathers and rights for new parents
This podcast talks about rights to time off and pay for fathers-to-be. It also includes information on rights and benefits for new parents.
Learn More
Maternity Action 52-54 Featherstone Street
London
EC1Y 8RT
Office phone only:
020 7253 2288
Maternity Rights Advice Line:
0808 802 0029
Maternity Care Access Advice Line
0808 800 0041
Media queries:
07913 381 208
Company no. 6478568
Charity reg. no. 1128776
Subscribe to our mailing list
* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name
Last Name
Role/organisation
Site archive View the entire sites archive
Search this website
Search for:
Search
Copyright © 2017 · All Rights Reserved · Maternity Action
Seed Theme v2 by Organic Themes · WordPress Hosting · RSS Feed · Log in
Facebook
Twitter
Vimeo
Email
Top
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok
