- QAAD: Quaker Action on Alcohol and Drugs
QAAD: Quaker Action on Alcohol and Drugs
Home
About us
Qaadnet
Our work
Qaadrant
Woodbrooke conference
Contact us
Donate
What is QAAD?
Quaker Action on Alcohol and Drugs (QAAD) is a listed group of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) and a registered charity. We work in accordance with Quaker principles to address the widespread use and misuse of alcohol, prescribed and illegal drugs, and gambling.
What does QAAD do?
QAAD aims to meet the needs for support and information within the Religious Society of Friends in relation to alcohol, other drugs, and gambling. We do this by producing materials, offering advice to individual Friends when requested, and by attending and organising gatherings.  We seek to facilitate links between Friends who share our concern or who are personally affected by substance issues themselves or in their families.
QAAD supports young Friends by offering workshops, attending gatherings, and producing materials.
QAAD also works in the public arena, where we continue the tradition of expressing a Quaker perspective on policies and practices that would reduce substance and gambling problems.
We also seek to offer briefings and information  – for example, with a paper on the issues surrounding decriminalisation.  The paper can be viewed here QAAD briefing on decriminalisation
Our gatherings
The Woodbrooke conference
QAAD holds a biennial gathering at Woodbrooke Quaker Study Centre in Birmingham, to which all Friends are welcome.
The most recent QAAD/Woodbrooke Gathering took place on 29th – 31st July, 2016, and the theme was Making a Difference.  We are grateful to all the speakers, workshop leaders and participants who made this a time of great sharing and useful exchange.
QAADNET
QAADNET is an informal network of Friends who have an interest or a concern with substances and gambling, whether this is through personal, professional, or voluntary experience. We meet as Quakers for learning, mutual support and exchange.
Our last meeting was held at Bristol Central Quaker Meeting House on Saturday 23rd April on a theme of ‘Close Others’.   We will post news of further meetings on this website.
QAADRANT Autumn 2016
To be acknowledged, to be heard:
Voices from the QAAD Woodbrooke conference
Crosses and circles: a Friend reflects
Download the current issue.
©2017 QAAD: Quaker Action on Alcohol and Drugs
