Welcome to Property news and policy
Tweet
Property news and policy
Home
Property
Policy
Buying
Selling
About
Contact
Roof blog
Welcome to Property news and policy
making property affordable
It is often said that buying or selling a home is one of the most difficult events in someone’s life. We are here to help you through this and make your relocation as stress free as it can be.
We are specialists in conveyancing and provide a complete conveyancing service allowing us to make the entire process as simple as it can be. We will work with your estate agent, builder, account, lawyer, lender or anyone else involvedto meet any deadlines you may have and work on customer service.
Re-mortgaging
Depending on whether you are purchasing, selling or re-mortgaging, we will offer a personal, effective and professional service beside our online case tracking. We will always have dedicated and experienced people to answer any queries.
If you have any queries please look at our contacts page to see the pertinent specialist who can assist.
We offer loads of advice. Today is one of the toughest times ever to buy or sell your property. With property law changing and you receiving lots of contradictory advice from property programmes, it’s hard to keep on top of it all.
Roofmag (UK) Limited has established a reputation for solving a wide range of safety-related problems associated with roofs, affecting contractors, clients, facilities, management and specifiers alike. The consequences of safety failure in such an environment, in legal, financial and human terms, are potentially disastrous.
Roofmag creates and develops a bond between the company and their clients. 'Customer commitment' is a well-worn phrase, but is at the core of Roofmag's philosophy.
We report on all news and features regarding housing policy.
We have a long history of working in the property market through its research, housing practice and policy development work. Levels of owner occupation have increased a lot in the last six decades. It now makes up for about 70% of all property.
Property repossession
But it’s far from a risk-free tenure. From 1988 to 1997, almost half a million households had their home repossessed, and these levels of repossessions are regrettably rising again in today’s economic downturn.
Our research shows that losing their home is very upsetting for the whole family, incurring long term consequences.
There are a few measures in place to assist people in financial difficulty, but there is a necessity to examine longer term possibilities to make the system sustainable for residential properties.
Economic difficulties
In the summer of 2008, a round up document which compares some of the rising issues of the current economic difficulties with those in the early 1990s. We hope that this will help mean that past research are taken into consideration as policy makers develop their responses to the difficulties of nowadays.
It shows that, although there are several differences with historic housing market downturns, there are also many similarities, mainly the lack of more sensible solutions to stop the most financially vulnerable from encountering prolonged arrears and eventually repossession.
With this and the links to the broader housing system in mind, we launched a new programme to examine long term possibilities for a change.
Our product portfolio consists of a range of natural roofing slate, handmade clay tiles and machine made clay tiles, concrete roof tiles, roofing underlay's, flat roofing materials and felt shingles to name but a few including all roofing accessories.
Contact us below
PLEASE ENTER YOUR MESSAGE
We are a family run business, established in January 2006, with dedicated staff who have a wealth of knowledge within the industry to cover all aspects of flat and pitched roofing thus enabling us to provide a personal service.
Keep Updated
Subscribe to our mailing list for offers, news updates and more!
2016 © Copyright Property news and policy - roofmag.org.uk All rights reserved. Email: property@roofmag.org.uk
Please call today for pricing whether it's handmade clay tiles for an extension, roofing slate for a development or just felt shingles for a summer house we can help you with competitive pricing and supply the right product for your project.
