Welcome to Gambling news and features
Tweet
Gambling news and features
Home
Coping
Advice
About
Contact
Auckland
Default
Research
Welcome to Gambling news and features
Whether you put money on sports, scratch cards, horses, dogs, roulette, poker, or slots—in a proper casino or just on the internet—problem gambling can put pressure on relationships, get in the way of work, and lead to money problems. You may even do things you would not think that you would, like taking money to gamble or deal with your debts. You may think you can’t end it but, with the correct help, you can deal with a gambling problem or addiction and take control of your life. The initial step is recognizing and acknowledging the issue.
Gambling addiction, often known as compulsive gambling, is a kind of impulse-control disorder. Compulsive gamblers can’t help the impulse to gamble, even when they are aware their gambling is hurting themselves or their dearest ones. Gambling is all they can think about and all they wish to do, no matter the results. Compulsive gamblers keep betting whether they’re up or down, bankrupt or flush, happy or down. Even when they know the odds are stacked against them, even when they can’t bear to lose, people with a gambling addiction can’t not gamble.
Gamblers can have a problem, however, without being completely out of control. Problem gambling is any gambling issue that disrupts your life. If you’re thinking about gambling, spending more and more time and pounds on it, chasing losses, or gambling in spite of some serious consequences, you may have a gambling problem.
This website is about gambling, its enjoyability but also the need for responsibility around it.
The site was set up in response to recommendations made by the Gambling Review Body which was commissioned by the Labour Government in 2001.
This report suggested that an independent Trust should be created and provided with voluntary funding of over £3 million annually by the industry of gambling, to find out about and stimy problem gambling. This recommendation was made because of proposals for big changes to the legal framework for betting, which the Government intended to put into action by 2005.
Some people decided to progress in advance of this suggested new legislation. By the start of 2004 it had decided to give grants of above £1.45m, to bodies providing help for problem betters, and public education about the dangers of gambling, created a report from independent consultants on the possibilities for its future strategy, took on a strategy for its future activities, raised cash and commitments from the industry which exceeded £2 million, agreed to commission investigation into the implications and chances of on-line counselling and selected an independent Chairman.
This research builds upon the discovery of several studies (mainly quantitative) that have observed a link between difficult gambling and managing styles. A group of interviews will be led with 50 problem gamblers to investigate how their gambling traits may be used as a coping strategy for handling other underlying problems, the significance that gambling has in their lives, and to continue to develop theory on problem gambling.
On top of this, a number of exploratory internet interviews will be conducted to look into problem gambling in relation to PC and technology-related betting issues. The research will help foster an understanding of the origins and development of problem gambling, and will add toward prevention and remedying measures that could help lessen the likelihood of problem gambling in the UK.
Contact us below
PLEASE ENTER YOUR MESSAGE
Keep Updated
Subscribe to our mailing list for offers, news updates and more!
2016 © Copyright Gambling news and features - rigt.org.uk All rights reserved. Email: gambling@rigt.org.uk
