Share The World's Resources (STWR) | Campaigning for a fairer sharing of wealth, power and resources within and between nations
Jump to navigation
Twitter facebook vimeo rss
Search form
Search
About us
Donate
English
日本語
Latest blogs
Articles and opinion
Reports and publications
Learn more
Get involved
Information centre
The path to achieving a truly universal basic income
Read more »
Sharing the world's wealth through a basic income guarantee
Read more »
A shared society has to offer hope, opportunity and social justice not fear, inequality and austerity
Read more »
The true sharing economy: inaugurating an age of the heart
Read more »
STWR interview: Awakening the heart for a great transition
Read more »
'A people's strategy for world transformation'
Read more »
833
818
834
777
807
681
Previous
Pause
Next
Sharing as our common cause
A report by STWR demonstrates how a call for sharing underpins existing initiatives for social justice, environmental stewardship, true democracy and global peace.Read more »
Sign the campaign statement
Sign the global call for sharing and add your voice to the growing demand for a fairer sharing of wealth, power and resources within and between countries. Read more »
Studies on the principle of sharing
A series of studies by STWR’s founder Mohammed Mesbahi examining the principle of sharing from political, social and spiritual perspectives.Read more »
STWR newsletter editorials
Read a selected archive of STWR editorials that highlight the growing debate on sharing, with a round-up of sharing-related news and other activities. Read more »
The sharing economy
A collection of STWR's articles and blogs examining the purpose, significance and future direction of the sharing economy movement.
Read more  »
A primer on global economic sharing
This introductory report by STWR outlines an alternative approach to managing the world’s resources based on international cooperation and the principle of sharing Read more »
Join our email newsletter
Support us
Please consider supporting our work with a donation.
Make a donation »
Latest STWR
Blog: Inequality is worse than you think. And yes, we have the data
Extreme inequality traps people in poverty and must be stopped. Even the World Bank agrees that eliminating poverty...
Blog: Money has been flowing out of developing countries for over a decade: UN report
The latest set of disturbing data from the UN shows that finance has been flowing out of developing countries at least...
Article: Famine looms in four countries as aid system struggles to cope, experts warn
Famine is looming in four different countries, threatening unprecedented levels of hunger and
Article: The path to achieving a truly universal basic income
Is it a viable prospect to create a direct mechanism for transferring a universal basic income to all the world’s...
Article: 10 economic myths we need to junk
Since the financial crash of 2008, followers of mainstream economic dogma haven't changed their tune much. But an ever-...
Latest tweets
Inequality is worse than you think. And yes, we have the data | @Oxfam https://t.co/sW96KWWVSu
RT @davidschneider: Tony Blair: "people must rise up against Brexit because if people rise up, the government will listen" https://t.co/OlX3rIrVQF
RT @UKStopTrump: Between us, we can make Feb 20 the greatest statement of solidarity with migrants in the UK's history. #StopTrump https://t.co/AJ2kXYRbbN
Visit us on Facebook
STWR's Vimeo channel
Follow us on Twitter
Share The World's ResourcesPO Box  52662, LondonN7 8UX, United Kingdom+44 (0) 20 7609 3034 Email: info[at]sharing.org
A not-for-profit civil society organisation with Consultative Status at the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Registered in the UK no. 4854864
The content on this website is published under a creative commons license.
Contact
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Order publications
Website by: NDP Studio
