Universal Credit: welfare that works - Publications - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
Policy paper
Universal Credit: welfare that works
From:
Department for Work and Pensions and The Rt Hon Iain Duncan Smith MP
First published:
11 November 2010
Part of:
Welfare reform
This publication was published under
the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government
This document sets out plans to create Universal Credit to simplify the welfare system, make work pay and combat worklessness and poverty.
Documents
Universal Credit: welfare that works
Ref: ISBN 978-0-10-179572-2, Cm 7957
PDF, 1.73MB, 73 pages
Order a copy
(£19.75)
This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format.
If you use assistive technology (such as a screen reader) and need a
version of this document in a more accessible format, please email accessible.formats@dwp.gsi.gov.uk.
Please tell us what format you need. It will help us if you say what assistive technology you use.
RTF version – Universal Credit: welfare that works
Ref: Cm 7957
RTF, 659KB
This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format.
If you use assistive technology (such as a screen reader) and need a
version of this document in a more accessible format, please email accessible.formats@dwp.gsi.gov.uk.
Please tell us what format you need. It will help us if you say what assistive technology you use.
Welsh executive summary – Universal Credit: welfare that works
PDF, 1.72MB, 8 pages
This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format.
If you use assistive technology (such as a screen reader) and need a
version of this document in a more accessible format, please email accessible.formats@dwp.gsi.gov.uk.
Please tell us what format you need. It will help us if you say what assistive technology you use.
Easy read – Universal Credit: welfare that works
Ref: ISBN 978-1-84947-463-4
PDF, 994KB, 16 pages
Detail
Read up to date information for:
people claiming Universal Credit
organisations that help people claiming Universal Credit
This white paper sets out the government’s plans to introduce legislation to reform the welfare system by creating a new Universal Credit. Universal Credit will radically simplify the system to make work pay and combat worklessness and poverty. The paper outlines:
the need for change
how Universal Credit will work
how it will affect benefit recipients
its broader impact
Read Iain Duncan Smith’s speech – Universal Credit: welfare that works
The government has also published its report on the consultation responses to 21st Century Welfare which spelt out the problems of poor work incentives and complexity in the current benefits and tax credits systems. Over 1,600 responses were received. There was general agreement on the need for reform with strong support for our objectives of streamlining the system and making work pay.
Impact assessments
Impact assessment – Universal Credit: welfare that works
Equality impact assessment – Universal Credit: welfare that works
Published:
11 November 2010
From:
Department for Work and Pensions
The Rt Hon Iain Duncan Smith MP
Part of:
Welfare reform
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
