Peacemakers
Home
About Us
Annual Reports
Background
The Team
Aims & Values
Support Us
News & Events
Previous Newsletters
What We Offer
Peacemakers Course
Peer Mediation Training
Staff Training
Whole School Approach
Resources
Learning for Peace
Useful websites
Contact Us
About Peacemakers
Peacemakers educates for peace. Our highly experienced trainers work with both school staff and pupils to develop skills, knowledge, behaviour and systems that develop peaceful learning environments.
Our work can enhance your PSHE or SMSC provision, living out school values, help with difficulties around class cohesion, low level disruption and social skills.
Our work is inclusive, dynamic and experiential – and great fun! We tailor our work to individual schools, offering:
Peacemakers workshops providing children with the social and emotional skills to build relationships and resolve conflicts peacefully.
Peer mediation training pupils to resolve disputes between themselves.
Interactive CPD provision, training and resources to support the curriculum and develop essential emotional, social and conflict resolution skills with children and adults.
Our Whole School Approach develop skills to build, maintain and repair relationships. This combines all of the above with the development of a whole school ethos based on Restorative Approaches.
Our new resource ‘Learning for Peace’ supports Spiritual, Moral, Social, Cultural development with an emphasis on peace. Aimed at primary schools and offering a spiral curriculum and comprehensive toolkit of activities.
Autumn newsletter
Read our latest newsletter and In Focus on 'A Restorative Approach'
Support Us
Donations to WMQPEP help us work in more schools in the West Midlands. Donate now.
Learning for Peace
Learning for Peace - A guide to developing outstanding SMSC in your primary school
This resource is now available to purchase. It includes an accompanying website with resources available to download. Find out more.
“Even after teaching one unit, I feel that my classroom is more peaceful.
The planning and games are really easy to follow.
There is a clear purpose behind every activity."
Latest Tweets
WMQPEP@WMQPEP
School People! Are you looking for quality #restorative practitioner training in March? In the Midlands?… https://t.co/3dKurOVO9S
7 days ago
WMQPEP@WMQPEP
RT @CNDPeaceEd: Great CPD opportunity for school staff in March: restorative practitioner training with @WMQPEP https://t.co/XkaCNsafgd
7 days ago
