Womens Budget Group
About Us
Our team
Funders
Join us
Recruitment
Donate
Contact
Analysis
Budget Assessments
Briefing Papers
Research Reports
May Monitor
News
Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
Resources
Select Page
New research shows that poverty, ethnicity and gender magnify the impact of austerity on BME women
Main Feature, News Low income black and Asian women are paying the highest price for austerity according to new analysis by the Women’s Budget Group in partnership with the race equality think tank Runnymede Trust.
Welcome to
The Women’s Budget Group
The Women’s Budget Group scrutinises government policy from a gender perspective. We are a network of leading feminist economists, researchers, policy experts and campaigners committed to achieving a more gender equal future. We have worked towards this since 1989.
Sign up to our newsletter
AFS 2016: Full response from the Women’s Budget Group
Analysis, Budget Analysis Theresa May became Prime Minister in the wake of the EU referendum which had revealed a deeply divided country. She pledged to build a country and economy that ‘works for everyone’, and the Chancellor affirmed those aspirations in his Autumn Statement address. In...
‘A missed opportunity to build a country that works for everyone’: Autumn Statement response
News Theresa May became Prime Minister in the wake of the EU referendum which had revealed a deeply divided country. She pledged to build a country and economy that ‘works for everyone’, and the Chancellor affirmed those aspirations in his Autumn Statement address....
IWD Event: “Gender Equality for a Sustainable Economy”
Events, Upcoming Events Wednesday 8th March, 5-7PM
Panelists on this International Women’s Day discussion include editors and contributors to a new book, ‘Economics and Austerity in Europe: Gendered impacts and sustainable alternatives’
What is gender budgeting?
Resources Gender Budgeting is a way of analysing the budget for its impact on women and men and its effect on gender equality
About
The Women’s Budget Group
Women’s Budget Group is an independent, not-for-profit that monitors the impact of government policies on men and women. We put forward policies for a more gender equal future and build the capacity of women and women’s groups to participate in economic debates.
Tweets by @WomensBudgetGrp
Copyright
Privacy
Contact
Website by 05creative*
Facebook
Twitter
Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress
