Prime Minister's Office, 10 Downing Street - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
Prime Minister's Office, 10 Downing Street
17 February 2017 — Press release
Prime Minister's plans to transform the way we tackle domestic violence and abuse
Prime Minister Theresa May announced plans for a major programme of work leading towards bringing forward a Domestic Violence and Abuse Act.
17 February 2017 — Press release
PM meeting with French Prime Minister Cazeneuve: 17 February 2017
Prime Minister Theresa May met the Prime Minister of France Bernard Cazeneuve and discussed a range of bilateral and foreign policy issues.
17 February 2017 — Authored article
We have voted to leave the EU, but not Europe: article by Theresa May
Writing in Le Figaro, Prime Minister Theresa May explains how the UK will be a dependable partner for our friends in France and Europe.
9 February 2017 — Speech
PM press conference with Italian Prime Minister Gentiloni: 9 February 2017
Theresa May and Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of Italy gave statements at a joint press conference following their Downing Street meeting.
6 February 2017 — Oral statement to Parliament
PM statement on European Council: 6 February 2017
Prime Minister Theresa May gave a statement on issues discussed at the informal European Council in Malta: migration, America and Brexit.
7 February 2017 — News story
PM meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu: 6 February 2017
Prime Minister Theresa May met with Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel and discussed free trade, security and Iran.
Latest
Prime Minister's plans to transform the way we tackle domestic violence and abuse
published
17 February 2017
Press release
PM meeting with French Prime Minister Cazeneuve: 17 February 2017
published
17 February 2017
Press release
We have voted to leave the EU, but not Europe: article by Theresa May
published
17 February 2017
Authored article
Get updates to this list
email feed
Copy and paste this URL in to your feed reader
See all
What we do
10 Downing Street is the official residence and the office of the British Prime Minister. The office helps the Prime Minister to establish and deliver the government's overall strategy and policy priorities, and to communicate the government's policies to Parliament, the public and international audiences.
Read more about what we do
Follow us
Connect with Number 10 on Twitter - @Number10gov
Connect with Number 10 on Facebook
Connect with Number 10 on Flickr
Connect with Number 10 on YouTube
Connect with Number 10 on audioBoom
Transparency
Greater transparency across government is at the heart of our commitment to let you hold politicians and public bodies to account.
Single departmental plans
Prime Minister's and Cabinet Office ministers' transparency publications
Government transparency data
Meet the Prime Minister
Theresa May became Prime Minister in July 2016.
Read her biography
Contact the Prime Minister's Office
Articles by the Prime Minister
History and tour
Guest contributors
10 Downing Street vies with the White House as being the most important political building anywhere in the world in the modern era.
About the Number 10 guest historian series
Articles by guest historians
Behind the black door
275 years of history is behind the famous black door of 10 Downing Street. Learn about past events and take a tour.
Learn about 10 Downing Street
Exclusive interviews with former cabinet secretaries
Listen to Number 10 staff talk about their work
Past Prime Ministers
53 Prime Ministers helped shape the history of the United Kingdom. Learn about the lives they lived and the legacies they left behind.
View all past Prime Ministers
Contact Number 10
Contact Number 10
Contact form
https://email.number10...
The Prime Minister’s office is interested to hear from you and you can email us using the link above. All emails are read and we will do our best to ensure you receive a response. Where appropriate, we will forward your email to the relevant government department for the matters you raise.You can also write to the following address:10 Downing StreetLondonSW1A 2AA
Our energy use
About us
Social media use
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
