Department of Anthropology - Anthropology - Home
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.Browser does not support script.
Main
Staff & students
Library
Departments & institutes
Research centres
Apps
Accounting
Anthropology
Economics
Economic History
European Institute
Finance
Gender Institute
Geography & Environment
Global Affairs (IGA)
Government
International Development
International History
International Inequalities Institute
International Relations
Language Centre
Law
Marshall Institute
Management
Mathematics
Media & Communications
Methodology
Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method
Psychological and Behavioural Science
Public Affairs (IPA)
Social Policy
Sociology
Statistics
Subjects taught at LSE | Services and divisions (administration)
Africa
Asia
Cities
Climate Change Economics and Policy (CCCEP)
Diplomacy and Strategy (IDEAS)
Economic Performance (CEP)
Economics and Related Disciplines (STICERD)
Financial Markets (FMG)
Grantham Research Institute (GRI)
Health and Social Care
Human Rights
International Growth (IGC)
Latin America and Caribbean (LACC)
Local Economic Growth (What Works)
Macroeconomics (CFM)
Middle East
Philosophy of Natural and Social Science (CPNSS)
Social Exclusion (CASE)
South Asia (SAC)
Southeast Asia (SEAC)
Spatial Economics (SERC)
Systemic Risk (SRC)
Time Series (CATS)
United States
Women, Peace and Security (WPS)
All research groups | Research subject areas
Email
Blogs
CareerHub
E-recruitment system
Finance Hub
Hallpad
Jobs
Library catalogue
LSE for You
Moodle
Remote desktop
Resource Booker (New)
Search
Training and development system
A-Z site index | Contact | Maps | Jobs|
Search the LSE website
Home
About
People
News
Seminars and events
Research
Publications
Degrees
Home > Anthropology
Department of Anthropology
Home
Anthropology
About us
People
Staff Office Hours
News
Seminars and events
Research
Recent Books
Degree Programmes
How to contact us
Department of Anthropology
6th Floor, Old Building
London School of Economics
Houghton Street
London WC2A 2AE
Head of Department
Professor Katy Gardner
Departmental Manager
Ms Yanina Hinrichsen
+44 (0)20 7955 7202
Administrator
Mr Tom Hinrichsen (Thu & Fri)
+44 (0)20 7955 6775
Administrative Officer
Ms Camilla Kennedy Harper
+44 (0)20 7107 5064
Administrative Officer
Ms Andrea Elsik
+44 (0)20 7107 5037
Administration and Communications Officer
Ms Renata Todd
+44 (0)20 7852 3709
General Enquiries
anthropology.enquiries@lse.ac.uk
LSE's Anthropology Department, with a long and distinguished history, remains a leading centre for innovative research and teaching. We are committed to both maintaining and renewing the core of the discipline, and our undergraduate teaching and training of PhD students is recognised as outstanding.
Follow this link to see a short film about the Department and some of its students.
News
Publications
Events
PhDs 2012-16
ERC‐FUNDED PHD SCHOLARSHIP
Justice, Morality, and the State in Amazonia
The Department of Anthropology at the London School of Economics and Political Science is advertising a PhD scholarship to participate in an ERC‐funded research project on justice in Amazonia. The scholarship is 4 years full time, covering UK/EU fees (or an equivalent contribution towards fees for international students), and a living allowance of £18,000 each year. The start date is October 2017.
Deadline for application: 17 March 2017
Deborah James'  Money from Nothing: indebtedness and aspiration in South Africa wins the Fage and Oliver Prize.
The Inequality and Poverty Research Programme invites applications from Adivasi scholars to visit the LSE.   Please click here for further information.
LSE Department of Anthropology tops the
University guide 2017 league table for anthropology
We were thrilled to see that the University guide 2017 announced LSE as having the best anthropology department. To see the full league table, click here
YEAR ABROAD
We are thrilled to announce that we have established a Departmental exchange arrangement with the University of Melbourne, offering undergraduate students reading Social Anthropology or Anthropology and Law the opportunity to spend a Year Abroad in Australia as part of their degree. This is in addition to the School-wide exchanges with Sciences-Po and the University of California, Berkeley.
The Melbourne anthropology department is widely recognised as amongst the best in the world, with particular expertise in anthropology of migration, the body and the environment. Students taking a Year Abroad at Melbourne will also be able to select from a wide range of outside options, including in subjects not available at the LSE. We're very excited about this addition to our programme.
LSE ANTHROPOLOGY RANKS TOP FOR STUDENT
SATISFACTION
The latest NSS results reveal LSE to be the best anthropology department for student satisfaction across the Russell Group. Students from our 2015 cohort awarded us a mark of 4.7 for overall satisfaction (out of a possible 5), putting us ahead of rival institutions such as Cambridge, Oxford and UCL.  We also received the highest marks of any Russell Group institution for our teaching, with 100% of students praising the intellectual stimulation of the course, and the enthusiasm of the lecturers. Interested in joining us? To find out more about our courses click here
Dr Ruben Andersson, a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Civil Society and Human Security Research Unit within the Department of International Development, has won the British Sociological Association / BBC Thinking Allowed (Radio 4) ethnography award for his book Illegality, Inc. Clandestine Migration and the Business of Bordering Europe.
The book argues that increasing border controls leads migrants to seek more dangerous routes to enter Europe. It is based on his PhD dissertation awarded from the Department of Anthropology, LSE for which he won the 2014 IMISCOE – Maria Ioannis Baganha dissertation award. One of the judges said: ‘…it was very powerful; it was a very beautifully written very evocative book…’
The shortlist was announced in Thinking Allowed on 15 April and the programme ran a special on the book on 22 April.
Lessons in Development.  Click here to listen to Alpa Shah on BBCr4 Four Thought on democracy, mining and tribal people.
Promises, Promises: A History of Debt.  Click here to listen to David Graeber's 10 part series on BBC Radio 4 where he explores the ways debt has shaped society over 5,000 years.
LSE student honoured at prestigious Chinese language competition
Angel Naydenov, undergraduate student in the Department of Anthropology, has won an award for ‘The Best Performance’ at the UK finals of the Chinese Bridge College Student Competition. The competition, which runs annually, contains a three minute speech in Mandarin, two minutes of questions on Chinese language, culture and geography, and a three minute talent show. Angel, who is from Bulgaria and studying Mandarin Language and Society Advanced Level, competed against 30 candidates from 15 universities across the UK to reach the finals, where he went up against another nine candidates. This is the second time LSE has won an award in the competition - last year Edward Knight, from the Department of International Relations, won another individual award for 'The Most Eloquent'.
Chinese Student Migration, Gender and Family by Anni Kajanus follows the sons and daughters of Chinese single-child families who go abroad to study and their families; exploring the increase of familial investment in daughters' education within the wider socio-moral transformation of China. The relationships of support in the family are renegotiated, and lines of generational and gendered power are changing. While this generation of young women have been raised in an environment that fosters individual achievement and competition, they must eventually find their place in the marriage and job markets that are highly gendered. Women are directed towards less demanding career paths and are wary of becoming 'too successful' to marry. Both female and male student migrants draw from their cosmopolitan experiences and resources when negotiating these tensions. Through their individual journeys of migration, they are at the forefront of the current transformation of the Chinese symbolic markets.
The revolution that brought the African National Congress (ANC) to power in South Africa was fractured by internal conflict. In analyzing this conflict, Jason Hickel contributes to broad theoretical debates about liberalism and democratization in the postcolonial world. Democracy as Death interrogates the Western ideals of individual freedom and agency from the perspective of those who oppose such ideals, and questions the assumptions underpinning theories of anti-liberal movements. The book argues that both democracy and the political science that attempts to explain resistance to it presuppose a model of personhood native to Western capitalism, which may not operate cross-culturally.
Money from Nothing by Deborah James explores the dynamics surrounding South Africa's national project of financial inclusion—dubbed "banking the unbanked"—which aimed to extend credit to black South Africans as a critical aspect of broad-based economic enfranchisement. The book reveals the varied ways in which middle- and working-class South Africans' access to credit is intimately bound up with identity, status-making, and aspirations of upward mobility. It draws out the precarious nature of both the aspirations and the economic relations of debt which sustain her subjects, revealing the shadowy side of indebtedness and its potential to produce new forms of oppression and disenfranchisement in place of older ones. Money from Nothing captures the lived experience of indebtedness for those many millions who attempt to improve their positions (or merely sustain existing livelihoods) in emerging economies.
In this book, C. J. Fuller and Haripriya Narasimhan examine one particularly striking group: Tamil Brahmans—a formerly traditional, rural, high-caste elite who have transformed themselves into a new middle-class caste in India, the United States, and elsewhere.
The Social Life of Achievement, edited by Nick Long and Henrietta Moore. This theoretically eclectic volume promises to be of interest to anyone with interests in the anthropology of education, the anthropology of neoliberalism, theories of agency and motivation, or the study of ethical life.
Featuring contributions by Richard Baxstrom, Laura Bear, Åsa Boholm, John Gledhill, Deborah James, Sarah Lund, Halvard Vike, and an introduction by Simone Abram and Gisa Weszkalnys, this volume and links planning to a set of anthropological concerns regarding the state, development, entitlement, agency and the imagination.
Fenella Cannell's book Vital Relations: Modernity and the Persistent Life of Kinship, published in August 2013, will be of interest to anyone who wishes to gain a different perspective on the concept of modernity itself, and on the place of kinship and 'family' in modern life.
Harry Walker’s book Under a Watchful Eye: Self, Power and Intimacy in Amazonia, published in November 2012 examines the formation of self among the Urarina, an Amazonian people of lowland Peru and raises fundamental questions about what it means to be alive, to be an experiencing subject, and to be human.
Potent Landscapes: Place and Mobility in Eastern Indonesia, by Catherine Allerton, has recently been published by the University of Hawai'i Press. Based on two years of fieldwork in rural Flores, the book situates Manggarai place-making and mobility within the larger contexts of human-environment interactions. Potent Landscapes will appeal to students and specialists of Southeast Asia and to those interested in the comparative anthropological study of place and environment.
Maurice Bloch’s book In and Out of Each Other’s Bodies was published in November 2012. It offers an accessible introduction to fundamental human questions such as: What is human sociality? How are universals such as truth and doubt variously demonstrated and negotiated in different cultures?
Ordinary Ethics in China, edited by Charles Stafford, has been published by Bloomsbury as part of the LSE Monographs on Social Anthropology series. The book includes chapters by LSE faculty and former students including Laura Bear, Hans Steinmuller, Stephan Feuchtwang, Eona Bell, James Johnston and Daniel Roberts.
Hans Steinmuller’s book Communities of Complicity: Everyday Ethics in Rural China, has been published by Berghahn Books. An ethnographic study of the village of Zhongba (in Hubei Province, central China), the book attempts to grasp the ethical reflexivity of everyday life in rural China. Drawing on descriptions of village life, interspersed with targeted theoretical analyses, Steinmuller examines how ordinary people construct their own senses of their lives and their futures in everyday activities.
Mathijs Pelkmans’ title, Ethnographies of Doubt: Faith and Uncertainty in Contemporary Societies has recently been published by I.B. Tauris. The volume contains several chapters by members and friends of the LSE Anthropology department: Alpa Shah on doubting revolutionaries; Maurice Bloch on types of shared doubt among Zafimaniry forest-dwellers; Giulia Liberatore on the doubtful belief of newly practicing Muslim women; and Mette High on doubting the cosmos in Mongolia.
In this new study: Anthropology and the Cognitive Challenge, Maurice Bloch proposes that an understanding of cognitive science enriches, rather than threatens, the work of social scientists. Arguing for a naturalist approach to social and cultural anthropology, Bloch introduces developments in cognitive sciences such as psychology and neurology and explores the relevance of these developments for central anthropological concerns: the person or the self, cosmology, kinship, memory and globalisation.
Austerity, Debt – What Alternatives?
Wednesday 01 March 2017 6:30pm to 8:00pm
Hosted by LSE Works: Department of Anthropology
Featuring Laura Bear, Deborah James and Ryan Davey
LSE Anthropology holds many events throughout the year, ranging from the annual Malinowski Memorial Lecture to regional seminars, a weekly research seminar, and a host of conferences and workshops.  To view details of all our events, please click here
Every Friday during term time we hold a research seminar on anthropological theory between 10:30am and 12:30pm in the  Seligman Library (OLD 6.05). Follow the link (which is in red) for details of speakers, and the dates and titles of their papers.
The Programme for Religion and Non-Religion offers a number of Forum on Religion events which are free and open to all.
PhD Theses
Fuad Musallam Failure and the politically possible: space, time and emotion amongst independent activists in Beirut, Lebanon
Philip Proudfoot The living dead: revolutionary subjectivity and Syrian rebel-workers in Beirut
Natalia Buitron Arias The attraction of unity, power, knowledge and community among the Shuar of Ecuadorian Amazonia
Juli Huang 'Do It yourself' development: ambiguity and relational work in a Bangladesh social enterprise
Meadhbh McIvor  To fulfil the law: evangelism, legal activism and public Christianity in contemporary England
Désirée Remmert Future aspirations and life choices: a comparison of young adults in urban China and Taiwan
Christopher Martin  Generations of Migration: Schooling, youth and transnationalism in the Philippines
Fernande Pool The ethical life of Muslims in secular India. Islamic reformism in West Bengal
Francesca Mezzenzana Living through forms: similarity, knowledge and gender among the Runa of Pastaza (Ecuadorian Amazon)
Andrea Pia The vanishing margin: an ethnography of rural water provisions in the environmentally degraded Chinese countryside
Amy Penfield Material morality: an ethnography of value among the Sanema of Venezuelan Amazonia
Johanna Whiteley The ancestors remain: dynamics of matrilineal continuity in West Gao, Santa Isabel, Solomon Islands
Christian Laheij A country of trial: Islamic reformism, pluralism and dispute management in Peri-Urban Northern Mozambique
Di Wu The everyday life of Chinese migrants in Zambia: emotion, stability and moral interaction
Michael Berthin Touch future x ROBOT: examining production, consumption, and disability at a social robot research laboratory and a centre for independent living in Japan
Tamara Hale Mixing and its challenges: an ethnography of race, kinship and history in a village of Afro-indigenous descent in coastal Peru
Jovan Lewis Sufferer’s market: sufferation and economic ethics in Jamaica
Mohamed Zaki And they say there aren't any gay Arabs: ambiguity and uncertainty in Cairo's underground gay scenes
Ana Gutierrez-Garza The everyday moralities of migrant women: life and labour of Latin American domestic and sex workers in London
Zorana Milicevic Children and the benefits of gender equality: negotiating traditional and modern gender expectations in a Mexican village
Sarah Grosso Extraordinary ethics: an ethnographic study of marriage and divorce in Ben Ali's Tunisia
Miranda Sheild Johansson To work is to transform the land: agricultural labour, personhood and landscape in an Andean ayllu
Anna Tuckett The ambiguities of documentation: migrants' everyday encounters with Italian immigration law
Sitna Quiroz Uria Relating as Children of God: Ruptures and Continuities in Kinship among Pentecostal Christians in the South-East of the Republic of Benin
Xiaoqian Liu The state through its mirrors: an anthropological study of a ‘Respect-the-Elderly Home’ in Rural China at the turn of the 21st century
Gustavo Barbosa Non-cockfights: on doing / undoing gender in Shatila, Lebanon
Daniela Kraemer Planting roots, making place: an ethnography of young men in Port Vila, Vanuatu
Marek Mikus What reform? Civil societies, state transformation and social antagonism in 'European Serbia'
Gus Gatmaytan Indigenous autonomy amid counter-insurgency: cultural citizenship in a Philippine frontier
Aude Michelet No longer kings: learning to be a Mongolian person in the Middle Gobi
Dina Makram Ebeid Manufacturing stability: everyday politics of work in an industrial steel town in Hulwan, Egypt
Giulia Liberatore Transforming the self: an ethnography of ethical change amongst young Somali Muslim women in London
Agnes Hann An ethnographic study of family, livelihoods and women's everyday lives in Dakar, Senegal
Matthew Wilde We shall overcome: radical populism, political morality and participatory democracy in a Venezuelan barrio
Dave Robinson Continuity, communion and the Dread: the Maori Rastafari of Ruatoria, Aotearoa - New Zealand
Yasna Singh Satnami self-assertion and Dalit activism: everyday life and caste in rural Chhattisgarh (central India)
Ruben Andersson Clandestine migration and the business of bordering Europe
Hakem al-Rustom Anatolian fragments: Armenians between Turkey and France
Michael Hoffmann  Patronage, exploitation and the invisible hand of Mao Tse Tung in an urban municipality in western Nepal
Alanna Cant Practising aesthetics: artisanal production and politics in a woodcarving village in Oaxaca, Mexico
Daniel Roberts The family in changing China: a local history of kinship in rural Zhejiang province
Cathrine Furberg Moe Peripheral nationhood: being Israeli in Kiryat Shemona
Denis Regnier Why not marry them?: history, essentialism and the condition of slave descendants among the southern Betsileo (Madagascar)
Luca Pes Building political relations: cooperation, segmentation and government in Bancoumana (Mali)
Tom Boylston The shade of the divine: Approaching the sacred in an Ethiopian Orthodox Christian community
Rebecca Chamberlain-Creanga Cementing modernisation: Transnational markets language and labour tension in a Soviet-era factory in Moldova
Kimberly Chong The work of financialisation: An ethnography of a global management consultancy in a post-Mao China
I-Chieh Fang Growing up and becoming independent: an ethnographic study of new generation migrant workers in China
Eona Bell An anthropological study of ethnicity and the reproduction of culture among Hong Kong Chinese families in Scotland
Austerity, Debt - What Alternatives? Featuring Laura Bear, Deborah James and Ryan Davey
Undergraduate Open Day
A Day in the Life of an LSE Student         Our research
Copyright © LSE 2016 |
Page updated 15 Feb 2017
Comment on this page | Freedom of information | About this site | Social media
Use of this website is subject to, and implies acceptance of, its Terms of use (including Copyright and intellectual property, Privacy and data protection and Accessibility). The London School of Economics and Political Science is a School of the University of London. It is a charity and is incorporated in England as a company limited by guarantee under the Companies Acts (Reg no. 70527).The registered office address of the School is: The London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, UK; Tel: +44 (0)20 7405 7686
Browser does not support script.
Browser does not support script.
