The Prehistoric Society
The Prehistoric Society
Home
About the Society
Grants & Awards
Publications
Image Gallery
Our Events
Places to Go
Links
Join Now!
Welcome to the website for the Prehistoric Society
Welcome to the Prehistoric Society, the foremost society for the promotion of study into our prehistoric past.  An exciting series of lectures, visits and conferences  can be found on the events pages of this site all of which are open to members and non-members. These events pages are frequently updated so please keep an eye on them.
Stonehenge Tunnel update: whilst we support the principal of improving the landscape and public enjoyment of the World Heritage Site, we are committed to the preservation of the archaeology and are currently carefully assessing the documents which have been released for consultation.
Dr Alex Gibson, President
Follow the Prehistoric Society
RSS Feed
Facebook
Twitter
Learn about the Society
Our interests are worldwide and extend from the earliest human origins to
the emergence of written records.
Membership is open to all, and includes professional, amateur, student and
retired members.
Search our Publications
Browse the following Society publications
Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society
Research Papers
PAST
Book Reviews
Explore Prehistoric Places
Looking for a site to visit? Want to know more about British Prehistoric
sites? Interested in visiting museums with prehistoric collections? If yes,
then please click here.
Forthcoming Society Events
New directions in the Landscapes of Prehistory 2: Uplands and Lowlands
4 March 2017 - 4 March 2017
Joint University of Reading/Prehistoric Society conference: Iron Age Oppida
22 April 2017 - 22 April 2017
Europa 2017: The Bronze Age as Pre-Modern Globalisation
Southampton,
23 June 2017 - 24 June 2017
Click for more events
Holding a conference? Organising a lecture?
Please download our flyer to distribute to your delegates
Latest Gallery Photos
Visits to Stonehenge and Avebury 2015
website design by TINY v
