Fisheries.co.uk - Places to fish in England and Wales
Angling Holidays |News | Fisheries for Sale |
Newsletter |Links |
Contact Us
Going fishing?Click on the mapto the right forthe latest weather outlook
More than SIX AND A HALF MILLION angler visits... Rated best UK coarse fishing website by 'The Sunday Times' ... "A very well-presented guide to coarse fishing in the UK" -
Daily Telegraph...
Scroll down the page to find full details and photographs on over 100 fisheries
Free fishing for juniors but adult prices rise in rod licence review
The Environment Agency has announced a major shake-up of rod licences which includes a free rod licence for junior anglers but a price rise for the adult 12 month and other licences. The new 12 month licences will run for a year from the date of purchase rather than until the end of March regardless of when it was bought. There's also good news for anglers who like to fish three rods.
The Agency says it hopes the introduction of free rod licences for junior anglers will encourage more young people to give fishing a go and secure the future of the sport.
The changes come into effect in March 2017 with new licences valid from 1 April. Follow this link for the full story and the latest price structure.
Chris sets new Astwood pool record with 233lbsThe match record for Astwood Fishery's Bluebell Pool has been smashed for the second time in just six weeks with Darlaston angler Chris Small taking a 233lbs 11oz catch whilst fishing a Roost AC match.
Drawn on Peg 7 at the Worcestershire venue, Chris pole fished corn and meat over pellets and for the first half of the match was busy catching crucians to 1lb 8oz before switching to the margins and getting stuck into commons and mirrors to 17lbs 12oz. He beat the previous Bluebell Record which was set just six weeks before with 191lbs and was only a few pounds light of setting a new venue record which still stands at 236lbs from Buddlea.
Fisheries.co.uk joins Facebook - come and like us
Fisheries.co.uk now has its own Facebook page where anglers can post photos, stories and comments on their latest angling antics. Why not share your latest catch or leave a message by following this link or clicking on the Facebook logo to the left. See you there!
Sleeping Pods for fisheries or home
Pendock Pods (left) are ideal for fishery owners looking to provide their anglers with a cost-effective alternative to anglers' own bivvies or more expensive log cabins, whilst the company's attractively designed Hobbit Pod is idea for use as children's playhouse or retreat in gardens, campsites and pub play areas. Follow this link to find out more about Pendock Pods.
Latest updates
Meadowlands - West Midlands
Blake Hall Fisheries - Staffs
Angel of the North - Durham
Broad Acres Fishery - Worcs
Coppice Lane Pools - Staffs
Furnace Lakes - West Sussex
Baden Hall - Staffs
Bluebell Lakes - Northants
Andy's Lake - Herefordshire
Modder Pool - West Midlands
Furnace Mill - Worcs
Heyford Fishery - Northants
Watersmeet - Gloucestershire
Naseby Reservoir - Northants
Drayton Reservoir - Northants
Clattercote Reservoir - Oxon
Alvechurch - West Mids
Lower Broadheath - Worcs
News bites...
Warwickshire's Studley Angling Club has reduced the price of its subs for the remainder of the current season. Anglers wanting to join before 14 March, 2017 will pay only £15.00 for Senior Membership and £10.00 for OAP Membership.
More than 300 tench weighing about 8oz have been added to Top and Middle Lake at Warwickshire's Lanny's Lagoon with the bulk of the fish going into Top Lake.
Last year's stocking at Pool House Farm
near Tamworth of 100 barbel and 400 ide, all between six and eight inches, is providing dividends with the barbel now coming out at a foot long.
Warwickshire's Kingsbury Water Park will once again be hosting a programme of angling events in 2016 including the Midlands Carp Cup, night fishing sessions and weekly 'Let's Family Fish' during the summer school holidays.
Meadowlands restricts the use of 8mm pellets
Coventry's Meadowlands Fishery has restricted the feeding of 8mm pellets on its Lamsdown Lake after anglers complained that fishing was becoming 'too one-dimensional'. The move follows a similar restriction two years ago on the smaller Warren Pool.
The change means that anglers are now only allowed to feed 8mm pellets between April 1 and October 30 and must restrict their use to 2kg per session.
It is hoped the move will improve the fishing and catch rates all year round, especially in winter.
Click on an area of the map to find a fishery near you
With over 100 featured fisheries and more in the pipeline it is no longer becoming practical simply to list them all in alphabetical order.
As a result, we have introduced this searchable map which will take you to a sub-index of fisheries in each specific region of the UK.
To find a list of fisheries listed just move your cursor over the relevant area of the UK and click to follow the link. At the bottom of each sub-index you will find a link which will bring you back to our homepage.
Below are links to over 100 day-ticket, pleasure, match and holiday coarse and game angling venues which offer
fishing on over 450 different lakes, pools and stretches of river.
Because anglers like to see as well as read about waters they may want to fish, the site is photo-intensive.
We have tried to keep picture file sizes reasonably small without detracting from their quality.
You can visit us again quickly and easily by bookmarking this page...
Links to fisheries in England and Wales
A12 Cuton Lakes - Essex
Alcott Farm - Worcestershire
Alvechurch Fisheries - West Midlands
Anchor Meadow - Warwks Avon
Andy's Fishing Lake - Herefordshire
Angel of the North - Co. Durham
Arrow Valley Lake - West Midlands
Astwood Fishery - Worcestershire
Avalon Fisheries - Somerset
Avington Trout Fishery - Hampshire
Baden Hall - Eccleshall, Staffs
Bake Lakes - Cornwall
Beaver Fishery - Surrey
Birch House Lakes - Derbyshire
Blake Hall Fisheries - Staffs
Bluebell Lakes - Northants
Blythe Waters - West Midlands
Boddington Reservoir - Northants
Bolingey Lakes - Cornwall
Boyce Holiday Park - Worcs
Brickhill Farm Fishery - Northants
Broad Acres Fishery - Worcs
Bury Hill Fisheries - Surrey
Bussells Farm - Devon
Butlers Hill - Warks/Oxon
Chester Lakes Fishery - Cheshire
Chequered Lake - Shropshire
Charlecombe Fishery - Devon
Chorley Springs - Staffordshire
Cider Farm Lakes - Somerset
Clattercote Reservoir - Oxfordshire
Clivey Ponds Fishery - Wiltshire
Coking Farm Fishery - Dorset
Coombe Pool - West Midlands
Coombe Water Fishery - Devon
Coppice Lane Pools - Staffs
Cottington Lakes - Kent
Cuckoo's Rest Fishery - Wiltshire
Dave's Pool - Leicestershire
Drayton Reservoir - Northants
Earlswood Lakes - West Midlands
Eden Vale Lake - Wiltshire
Emperor Lakes Fishery - Devon
Evesbatch Fisheries - Herefordshire
Fennes Fisheries - Essex
Fisherwick Lakes - Staffordshire
Four Ponds Fishery - Devon
Furnace Lakes - West Sussex
Furnace Mill - Worcestershire
Ginger Hill - South Wales
Hampton Springs Fishery - Cheshire
Hamstall Pleasure Fishery - Staffs
Hawford Bridge Fishery - Worcs
Heyford Fishery - Northamptonshire
Highway Farm Fishery - Dorset
Hillview Lakes - Gloucestershire
Hopsford Hall - Warwickshire
Jersey Wood Fishery - Warwickshire
Kingfisher Trout Lake - Hereford
Kingston Fishing Pools - Warks
Kingsbury Water Park - Warwickshire
Lakeside Fishery - Leicestershire
Lanny's Lagoon - Warwickshire
Little Fishery Farm - Leicestershire
Little Pit Fishery - Leicestershire
Llandyfan Fishing Park - South Wales
Lower Broadheath - Worcestershire
Lyons Gate Fishery - Dorset
Meadowlands - West Midlands
Mill Farm Fishery - West Sussex
Milton Pools - Oxfordshire
Modder Pool - West Midlands
Monk Lakes - Kent
Naseby Reservoir - Northants
New Barn Farm - Devon
New Farm Fishery - Cheshire
Nine Oaks Angling Centre - Wales
Oakham Farm - Warwickshire
Oham Lakes - Lincolnshire
Packington Somers - West Midlands
Passies Ponds - West Sussex
Patshull Park - Shropshire
Peatling Pools - Leicestershire
Peatling Match Lakes - Leics
Pipehill Fisheries - Staffordshire
Pixley Pools - Herefordshire
Pool House Farm - Staffordshire
Pridewood Hops - Herefordshire
Redbank Pools - Herefordshire
Revels Fishery - Dorset
The Riddings - Warwickshire
River Arrow (Studley AS) - Warwks
Rood Ashton Fishery - Wiltshire
Rookley Country Park - Isle of Wight
Ryton Pool - West Midlands
Seven Meadows - Warwickshire Avon
Snowland Fisheries - Cornwall
Spring Rock Fishery - mid Wales
Springwood Fishery - Kent
Stockton Reservoir - Warwickshire
Stone End Farm - Gloucestershire
Stones Fishery - Kent
Summerhayes Fisheries - Somerset
Sumners Ponds - West Sussex
Temple Farm - Leicestershire
The Sedges Fishery - Somerset
Three Island Lake - Bedfordshire
Todber Manor Fishery - Dorset
Tring Reservoirs - Hertfordshire
Trinity Waters - Somerset
Twyford Farm - Worcestershire
Viaduct Fishery - Somerset
Wapperwell Pond Fishery - Devon
Watersmeet - Gloucestershire
Weston Lawns - Warwickshire
Whetstone Gorse - Leicestershire
White Springs Lakes - South Wales
Wildmoor Waters - Gloucestershire
Willow Farm Fishery - Worcestershire
Witherington Farm Fishery - Wiltshire
Woodlands Fishery - Lincolnshire
Woods Farm - West Midlands
Match-only venues
Peatling Match Lakes - Leicestershire
Flight Match Lake - West Midlands
Venues which offer Trout Fishing
Avington Trout Fishery - Hampshire
Fisherwick Lakes - Staffordshire
Ginger Hill - South Wales
Kingfisher Trout Lake - Herefordshire
Nine Oaks Fishery - West Wales
Patshull Park - Shropshire
Angling holidays, breaks and accommodation
Details of British Rod-caught Record Fish
If you run a day-ticket water which you would like to see included on Fisheries.co.uk, please e-mail: info@fisheries.co.uk or telephone07951 870559.
The information and pages on this site are intended for the personal use of anglersand should not be reproduced for publication, broadcast or any other purpose withoutprior permission of the site owners.
Whilst the publishers try to ensure the integrity of the informationsupplied, its accuracy cannot be guaranteed.
---- Fisheries.co.uk was last updated on 14 February, 2017 ----
© Fisheries.co.uk
