grough — Up-to-date news and features from the outdoors
Magazine
Route
Account
Support
Links
About
Magazine / Welcome to grough
1
Peak District mountain bikers spark debate on future of Cut Gate route
2
Baby Jesse joins Calder Valley rescuers in callout to injured mountain biker
3
'Barefoot Aleks' completes record 3,800-mile run down the length of Europe
4
Six-hour search launched after two walkers reported missing on Bleaklow
5
Rescuers seek walkers for Wharfedale 3 Peaks challenge
Recent
Mountain bikers in the Peak District are seeking views on one of the national park’s most popular routes.
Cut Gate runs between the upper Derwent Valley and Langsett Reservoir in the North-East of the area
Article continues »
12
Toggle details
Read article
Rescue team volunteers were joined by a young supporter after being called out to aid an injured mountain biker.
Calder Valley Search and Rescue Team member Sophie Keeler responded to the call for help on Sunday, even though she had her baby Jesse with her
Article continues »
Toggle details
Read article
A man who took up running less than five years ago has completed a gruelling journey down the complete length of mainland Europe.
Aleks Kashefi, known as Barefoot Aleks, ran from Nordkapp in Arctic Norway to Punta de Tarifa in Spain, a distance of 6,189km (3,846 miles), taking 196 days battling through winter weather on his solo venture
Article continues »
123
Toggle details
Read article
Two walkers were rescued from the Peak District’s second-highest hill after being reported missing overnight.
Glossop Mountain Rescue Team was called out at 2am on Sunday to search for the women on Bleaklow
Article continues »
Toggle details
Read article
Rescuers in the Yorkshire Dales are looking for walkers with stamina who are up for tackling a 22-mile route over three fells.
Participants’ aches and pains will be assuaged by the warm glow of knowing their efforts have helped the volunteer team that covers the area
Article continues »
Toggle details
Read article
News
Woman suffers serious injuries in 65ft fall from Borrowdale scramble
A woman was airlifted to hospital after suffering serious injuries when she fell more than 60ft while scrambling on a route in the Lake District.Read more » Friday BBC show's unique techniques will showcase The Lake District: A Restless Year
Following the broadcast of Terry Abraham’s Life of a Mountain: Blencathra earlier this week, the BBC is offering more Lakeland eye candy.Read more » Snugpak launches brand new insulated and waterproof jacket!
Stay warm and dry with Snugpak’s Torrent Jacket
Snugpak, the UK’s leading sleeping bag and insulated clothing manufacturer, has launched its first ever insulated, waterproof jacket – the Torrent jacket.Read more » More than 40 rescuers called out as walker injured in 300ft Old Man of Coniston fall
More than 40 mountain rescuers were involved in an operation to help two walkers who fell in separate incidents on The Old Man of Coniston.Read more » Family of tragic kayaker Dominic Jackson in push to boost locator beacon use
The family of a kayaker whose body was found on the Caithness coast after a major search has launched a campaign to encourage the use of personal locator beacons.Read more » Scots gamekeepers join mountaineers to protect open vistas from forest plans
An unlikely alliance of two traditionally opposing bodies is urging the Scottish Government to protect the open landscapes for which the nation is renowned.Read more » Glyder Fach walker rescued after getting stuck scrambling on Bristly Ridge
A man was rescued from a Snowdonia scrambling route after getting stuck.
The 25-year-old hillwalker was attempting Bristly Ridge on Glyder Fach on ...Read more » Injured walker rescued from remote Coigach coastal path
A walker was rescued from a remote coastal path in north-west Scotland after suffering an injury.
Dundonnell Mountain Rescue Team was called out ab...Read more » Police confirm body found at Lybster was missing kayaker Dominic Jackson
Police have confirmed that the body found off the north-east coast of Scotland last week was that of missing kayaker Dominic Jackson.Read more » See all news articles »
Feature
Review: Annandale Way, by Roger Turnbull and Jacquetta Megarry
A turn-by-turn guide to this gentle trail through Scotland's border country takes the walker from source to sea.
Read more »Other features »
Gear
On test: insulated jackets reviewed
Down or synthetic? Well, it's no longer that simple, as we found when we put 12 insulated jackets to the test in a British winter...
Read more »Other gear news »
Featured walk
Follow in the Brontë sisters' footsteps to Top Withins, inspiration for Wuthering Heights
Take to the romantic wild Brontë moors, home to Cathy and Heathcliff, on this walk starting in the hilltop village of Haworth in West Yorkshire .
Read more »Other walks »
Your account
Sign in
Register
Advertise on this site
Follow our updates
RSS
grough
groughmag
Advertise on this site
All content is copyright © grough.co.uk 2006-2017, unless otherwise stated. All rights reserved.
'grough Limited' is registered in England and Wales. Registered number 06881144. Registered office 2 Spring Wells, Oakworth, Keighley, BD22 0QZ.
Our organisation
Contact us
Site staff and reporters
Who are we?
Send us details of an event
grough on Facebook
grough on Twitter
This site
Advertise on this site
Syndication and feeds
Manage your account
Register an account
Legal
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Ethical policy
This website and our partners use cookies to provide authentication, advertising, and analysis of our traffic.
More information can be found in our privacy policy.
If you continue to use the website, we will assume you are happy to receive these. You can change your browser settings to disable these at any time, but some site functionality may be lost.
I understand
