Ladies Real Tennis Association - Home/News
Home page
Home/News
Fixtures/Results
Child Protection
Rules for LRTA Tournaments
World Championship Rules
T&RA; Handicap Calculators
Rolls of Honour
Rankings/Profiles
Current top players
Past Champions
Honorary Members
Executive Committee
About the LRTA
Contact the LRTA
LRTA Facebook Group
LRTA Bursary Scheme
LRTA Incentive Scheme
LRTA Club Representatives
Clothing/Merchandise
Who does what?
Constitution
LRTA Archives
Neptune
Members Area
Join the LRTA
Useful Links
﻿Home and News Page﻿
Quick Links  - click on the item you want to see (or scroll down below for further details and other news items).
Results, Report and Photos for Billy Ross Skinner 2017 now available​The 2017 AGM (Saturday 8th April 2017 at 18.30 at Seacourt) Agenda and LRTA Executive Committee nominations are now available in the Members areaClick here for the entry form for the Neptune British Open Singles and Doubles and Handicap Doubles to be held at Seacourt from Wednesday 5th to Sunday 9th April 2017  -  closing date for entries Sunday 12th March 2017.See News Item below re membership and Gift Aid for the T&RAThe February 2017 Newsletter is now available in the Members AreaClick here for streaming of the Australian Opens.  Click here for the online entry form for the British Ladies Masters 2017Tournament Results, Reports and photos available via relevant links on the Fixtures/Results pageMatch Results 2016/2017See News item below about the fine win by the LRTA team in the Brigands Peripatetic tournamentSee News Item below about The Tabley VaseSee News Item below about Wellington Grand Opening and Celebrations.See News Item below about Melvyn Pignon. See report below re the presentation to Chantelle Harding thanking her for the work she did whilst on the LRTA Executive CommitteeSee report below re the Tennis and Golf dayCongratulations to Claire and Rob Fahey on the birth of their daughter Sophie  -  further details belowAGM 2016 Documents  -  AGM Minutes, Chairman's report and Accounts​
Many thanks to all the photographers.
Email the LRTA
Join the LRTA
Our Sponsors:
If you would like to know more about any of our sponsors, you can click on their logo below and their website will open in a new window.
News Items:
T&RA Gift Aid Form
The Tennis and Rackets Association (T&RA) now has charitable status so all members over the age of 21 are invited to complete and return a Gift Aid form.  This will permit the T&RA to reclaim additional income from your membership subscription; in turn helping them to further promote and support Tennis and Rackets.  An important advantage to you is that, if you are a higher-rate tax payer, you will be able to claim additional tax-relief.If you haven't already completed a Gift Aid form for the T&RA, you can click here to download the form which can be signed and returned to the T&RA office or scanned and emailed back to membership@tennisandrackets.com.​​The LRTA encourages its members to join the T&RA as well as the LRTA.  Members of both associations can receive a concession on their T&RA subscription so that they are not financially disadvantaged by being members of both.  Contact the LRTA Membership Secretary for more details (see under About the LRTA/Who does what? for the name of the current Membership Secretary).  Information about joining the T&RA can be found on the T&RA website:  ​https://www.tennisandrackets.com/general-join.aspx
Brigands Peripatetic Tournament  -  Saturday 8th October 2016 at Hardwick
Izzy Candy and Evelyn Flemng
For the second year running this tournament was won by the LRTA team.  Congratulations to Izzy Candy and Evelyn Fleming.Click here for the full results.
Tabley Vase 2016
On Saturday 1st of October Holyport Real Tennis Club hosted the annual Tabley Vase ladies' handicap doubles tournament. Congratulations to Amy Pye and Hannah Lucey from Prested who defeated Pam Tomalin and Candida Nicholls 8/4 in the final. This was the third year in a row for Amy and the second year for Hannah as well deserved winners of this trophy. There was a slightly reduced number of entries this year as the date coincided with some other real tennis events, however it was a lovely opportunity to welcome some new players on court for their first tournament. All the new players improved as the day went on and we hope to see them again at future ladies tournaments.Thank you from all the players to Jill Newby for organising such an enjoyable day and for providing a delicious lunch.
Wellington Real Tennis Court Opening
Katy Weston & Dan Jones
The Wellington Real Tennis Court Opening Ceremony took place on Wednesday 21st of September. HRH The Earl of Wessex unveiled a plaque and after a tour of the new facilities there was an exhibition doubles match between Claire Fahey & William Maltby v Freddie Bristowe and Dan Jones.  The former won 6-5 (reaching deuces in the final game).  After the match Katy Weston presented a hand made leather bound Match Book to William Maltby on behalf of the LRTA. There are many photos of the official opening ceremony on the T&RA website. Click here to go to the page.To celebrate the opening of the new real tennis court there was a celebratory weekend of tennis and social events from 23rd to 25th September 2016. This included a Handicap Doubles Tournament, Cocktail Party and Black Tie Dinner. For photos of the Black Tie Dinner on the T&RA website Click here.
Melvyn Pignon
It is with great sadness that we report the death of Melvyn Pignon.  Melvyn was well known as a hockey player, representing England from 1954 to 1967.  However she was also a Real Tennis player and served on the LRTA Executive Committee for many years.  Melvyn first started Tennis when journalists were offered to try the game at Queen's and she won a racket for being the most promising player.  Her funeral took place on Thursday 29th September 2016 at 1pm at St Mary's Church Sunbury.​Click here to read the obituary published in "The Times" on 17th September.
Thanks to Chantelle Harding  -  member of the LRTA Executive committee 2004 to 2016
Chantelle was "determined" not to be "subjected" to the presentation of a gift to thank her for all the hard work she did whilst serving on the LRTA Executive committee.  She produced very good reasons for refusing all invitations to appropriate occasions but our committee don't give up that easily!  A cunning plan was evolved, with the help of the Hardwick ladies, and it was agreed that, unbeknownst to Chantelle, the presentation would be made at the Hardwick Ladies tennis evening on Monday 4th July 2016.  As Chantelle kindly organises this, we could be sure of her presence.  Several committee members are members of Hardwick and Alex Garside, Viv Dawes and Lucy Hutchinson also made the journey to join us for the occasion.  It was a very happy evening with lovely food provided by Katy Weston and Pam Tomalin and plenty of wine provided by others of the fifteen or so ladies present.The present chosen for Chantelle was exactly suited to her.  Chantelle always provided delicious home baked cakes for committee meetings so a cake stand, with a personalised message: "with love & thanks from us all in the LRTA", was the chosen gift.  Chantelle was thrilled and very much appreciated the thought that had gone in to choosing something so totally appropriate.  Alex made the presentation and thanked Chantelle, on behalf of us all, for all she has done for the LRTA.  We wish Chantelle all the best for the future and look forward to seeing her on court again before too long.
LRTA Tennis and Golf Day 2016  -  4th May 2016  -  at Hardwick House and Huntercombe
Despite the best laid plans, an accident and road closure meant Jo and I were late. Jo was the first on, but an early call to Lucy did the trick and we were still met with smiley faces! Let me go back........  Lucy had suggested I might like to play in this wonderful day some time earlier.  It turned out that my daughter Jo was also free that day.  Neither of us had played real tennis for some years but no one seemed to mind.  With the clever way Lucy sorts pairings and organises the handicap (tough for the markers as requires concentration!) the short sets are played with anticipation and enthusiasm, until Julia Scott of Newmarket emerged the tennis winner. The drive to Huntercombe was amazing as it was bluebell season and they were quite spectacular under the fresh greens of the beech tree canopy.  Lunch was very welcome and delicious, and we were soon on the tee.  Different partners and a few more faces, including Les Ronaldson and Jill Newby, to play an 18 hole Stableford on this glorious course.  As usual, degrees of tiredness met us at the end, depending on how we had played!  Jill took the honours with 30 Stableford points, closely followed by Lucy with 29.  Tea and cake and good humour took over and Lucy gave us a lovely prize giving before wending our way home.I had forgotten what a lovely day this is.  Time spent with good friends playing two great sports in lovely surroundings.  To be recommended!  A huge thank you to our playing partners and to Lucy for getting me back on the court, and organising the almost perfect day.                                                                                                                                                 Report by Clare Wetherill(Unfortunately there were no usable photographs of the day.)​
Ladies World Championships 2017 Date Announced
The Ladies World Championships will be held at Tuxedo May 15th - 21st  2017​
Congratulations!​
​Congratulations to Claire and Rob Fahey on the birth of their daughter Sophie Eleanor.  Sophie was born on Friday 15th April at 4.29 pm, weighing 8 lbs 5 oz. Claire says:  "We're back home now and loving our new little addition.  Both parents absolutely besotted already!"Excellent news and I'm sure everyone will join in sending Claire, Rob and Sophie our very best wishes.
© 2017 - All content is copyright. Any use of the content requires the prior written permission of the Ladies Real Tennis Association
✕
