Beech Village near Alton Hampshire UK
Beech Village
HampshireBeech Village in Hampshire EnglandFollow Us
Home
About Beech
About Beech Village
Finding Beech
Parish Plan
Beech Parish Plan
Parish Plan Links
Village Hall
Village Hall
Booking the Hall
Finding the Hall
Chairman’s Reports
Hall build project
Hall build – Alton Herald article
New Hall Opening March 2010
Hall build Aug09
Hall build report Apr09
Activities
Clubs, classes & activities
Beech Art Group
Beech Gardeners
Beech Gardeners news
Beech Ladies
Children & Young People
Gallery
Photo Gallery
Photo Competition 2011
St Peter’s Church
Neighbourhood Watch
About Neighbourhood Watch
Neighbourhood Watch Contacts
Confidential Email Database
Scams and Hoaxes
Neighbourhood Watch news
NW Seasonal Advice
Diary
Village Diary
Regular activities
Events Archive
St Peter’s Church
St Peter’s Church, Beech
A brief history
Photo gallery
Church news archive
Links
Location
Useful Links
Parish Council
Parish Council News
Parish Council Meetings
This page is having a slideshow that uses Javascript. Your browser either doesn't support Javascript or you have it turned off. To see this page as it is meant to appear please use a Javascript enabled browser.
Welcome
to the Beech village website!
Join in our new season of social activity
starting now!
Please see Diary for details of village events to come in 2017.....
Home
Beech Village Website
Welcome to the Website of the Hampshire village of Beech. This site is published on behalf of the Beech Village Hall and Recreation Ground Management Committee. You can also follow us on facebook – click on the link above.  If you want to book the Hall, click here.
What’s going on…
Talk by Rosy Hardy of “Hardy’s Cottage Garden Plants”The Beech Gardeners are hosting a talk by Rosy Hardy on Wednesday 1st March at 7.30 pm in the Beech Village Hall.  Tickets £5 - phone Kathy 01420 549401 or Sheila 01420 88924.
Rosy of "Hardy's Cottage Garden Plants", winners of 21 Chelsea Gold Medals, is coming to give a talk ... Read moreHear the first-hand experience of a terrorist hijack survivor!This second talk in aid of Riding for the Disabled is on Thursday 2nd March at Wivelrod Barns.  John Hussey was a 52 year old business passenger on a 747, Pan Am Flight 073, when it was hijacked by Palestinian terrorists while taking on passengers in Karachi [Pakistan] on Friday ... Read moreEASTER CONCERT
at Alton AbbeyThe next fundraising event by Friends of Alton Abbey (Reg Charity No 284876) will be a concert by Cappella Group Vox Lucis which will include EARLY MUSIC and READINGS for LENT , including Tallis, Byrd, Victoria, Palestrina, Lotti and others.
To be held in the church at Alton ... Read moreNew addition to the playground on the Village GreenBeech Village Hall is very pleased to announce that a new piece of playground equipment, a rope climber by Playdale, has been installed on the Green.
The rope climber is for the older child (8-14 years) and complements the existing playground that is already so popular with ... Read moreMurder Mystery dinner 11th FebruaryCome along and work out who did the dirty deed over a two-course curry supper (Vegetarian available).  Prize is a meal for two at the Castle of Comfort pub, Medstead. Tickets £17.50, available from  John Tomalin - 01420 563496  or e-mail ... Read moreChairman’s Report 2016Click below to read Nick Charman's full report for the 2015-16 financial year:
BVH Annual Report 2016 ... Read moreA Create Design Studio Website© 2017How We Use Cookies
