An indexed collection of records from Argentina documenting the presence of thousands of British and other English-speaking residents there
British Settlers in Argentina and Uruguay—studies in 19th and 20th century emigration
Site navigation:
Buenos Aires
St John's Church
St Andrew's Church
Methodist Church
Other churches in Bs. As.
Other marriages
Pre-1825 in the River Plate
Consular Declarations
Cemetery Burials
Buenos Aires, Victoria
Buenos Aires, Chacarita
Transfer of headstones
Quilmes
Llavallol
Chascomus
Azul
San Vicente
Rosario, Antiguo
Rosario, Disidentes
Obituaries, wills, curators and monumental inscriptions
Provinces
Buenos Aires
Santa Fe
Patagonia
Entre Rios
Córdoba
Camp services / Cultos en el campo
República Oriental del Uruguay
Uruguayan churches
Site navigation:
General pages
Immigrants from Britain
British shipping at Buenos Aires
News from Buenos Aires
Lists of names
Pioneering days
Lincolnshire Farmers
Mulhall's Handbooks
Doctors in the British Community, 19th and early 20th centuries
Names in censuses and Kelly's Directory
Landowners in Santa Fe Province: Warner map, 1895
Supporting pages
Aims and introduction to this website
Translations and abbreviations
Site history
Links to other sites
Other writings by the author
Contact me
An indexed collection of records from Argentina documenting the presence of thousands of British and other English-speaking residents there.
Records include baptisms, marriages, deaths and burials from the Anglican, Scots Presbyterian and Methodist churches, transcripts from the National Archives in Buenos Aires and London, Argentine census returns and contemporary publications.
If you know the family name of the persons you are looking for, the easiest way to locate them is by using the search facility below.
powered by
FreeFind
Website constructed, 1999 to 2008, by Jeremy Howat and republished in its fifth edition as "www.argbrit.org" on 4 January 2008.
Updated to 3 January 2017.
Mary Godward,
the late H. R. Henly, René Jacobsohn, Cathy Murray, Luis Sebastian Stuart Pennington, Marie Renée Rodríguez,
the late Colin Sharp, and Robert Wells to all of whom and many others I express my deep gratitude.
Website search technology courtesy FreeFind.com
