Calverton, Milton Keynes England.
Welcome to Calverton Milton Keynes, England.
The village of Calverton (with a total population of about 150)
consists of Lower, Middle and Upper Weald and is situated near Stony Stratford,
to the West of Milton Keynes in the county of Buckinghamshire, England (about
80Km/50miles north of London). To find us click
here.
The Calverton Records
Project.
The Calverton Records Project (of which this web site is a part)
was started under the auspices of the Calverton Residents Association at a
meeting on the 6th of July 1996. The objectives of the project are to uncover
the past of Calverton, and to record its present for the future.
As part of the Records Project you can learn about Calverton in
1086, look around Lower
Weald, find out what the village was up to on December the 16th 1932, and what "Parrots Pieces" are.
The Calverton Records Project is part of the
Milton Keynes Heritage
Association.
Local and Recent News.
Feb 2001 - Calverton is 2000 years
old!Oct 2000 - Floods in Lower Weald.Oct
2000 - Flood prevention work.May
2005 - An evacuee in Calverton.
There are other Calvertons in the world!
The Homepage for
Calverton, Maryland, USA.
Calverton Village
near Arnold, Nottingham, UK. orCalverton Village near Arnold, Nottingham, UK.
Stop Press.
Proof received of the existence of other Calvertons!
"I am possibly the only person to have grown up in
Calverton, Maryland and have been to Milton Keynes. Strangely,
I don't recall noticing the existence of your village despite having spent a
year at the University of Buckingham and then 5.5 years living in Luton (but I
don't like to admit the latter).
I have been to the MK shopping centre countless times but
don't remember seeing any directional signs along the local A roads advertising
your village. Is it just too small for such an honour, or was I not paying
attention, or was I simply on the wrong roads? :-)
CFC (now living in Takoma Park, Maryland)"
e-mail January 2002
This is web site is maintained by Stephen Stewart.
Last updated 2012-01-27.
