Chalice Well Trust Gardens - A Living Sanctuary | Glastonbury Tor
Skip to content
Accessibility Information
The Chalice Well Trust
Chilkwell Street,
Glastonbury, Somerset
BA6 8DD
T: 01458 831154
Registered Charity Number: 1147343
Company Registration Number: 08048023
Home
About us
Shop
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
Gallery
Enter your search
Currently Viewing :
Welcome to the Chalice Well
Welcome to the Chalice Well
Chalice Well is one of Britain's most ancient wells, nestling in the Vale of Avalon between the famous Glastonbury Tor and Chalice Hill. Surrounded by beautiful gardens and orchards it is a living sanctuary in which the visitor can experience the quiet healing of this sacred place. For over two thousand years this has been a place where people have gathered to drink the waters and find solace, peace and inspiration.
At present we work with the theme of 'Many Paths, One Source' to welcome all people of goodwill to the gardens throughout the year. We also mark 'the wheel of the year' at regular intervals with events of celebration, silence and meditation, and conversation. This includes an evening programme of music, poetry and performance throughout the summer months in our candlelit gardens.
We also have limited opening hours on the first Saturday in June each year, when we hold our annual Companion's Day. On Companion's Day the gardens are open to the public between 3.30 and 6.00 pm, with last admission at 5.30 pm. You can find out more about opening hours and entrance prices on the Visiting Chalice Well page.
Events in February
Chalice Well Wheel of the Year | First Stirring | 1 February | midday
Events in March
Chalice Well Wheel of the Year | Spring Equinox | 20 March | midday
Essences Workshop | Discovering Chalice Well Essences | 24-26 March
On the Brink!
The Next Chalice
Mar 20th : Wheel of the Year Festival | Spring Equinox (Meditation)
Mar 24th : Chalice Well Essences | Weekend Workshop | 'Return to the Garden'; Working with Chalice Well Essences
Mar 24th : Chalice Well Essences | Train as a Chalice Well Essences Practitioner | SAVE Â£200
Chalice Well: The Story of a Living Sanctuary
For the first time the official history of Chalice Well is told in this fascinating book containing unseen images and untold stories from the Chalice Well and David Russell archives.
A must read for anyone with an interest in or connection to the Well.
View full details >>
Chalice Well Shop
About Chalice Well
- About Chalice Well
- Chalice Well Trust
- Meet the Trustees
- Meet the Staff
- Historical Archive
- Seasonal Gallery
- Events Gallery
- Send Images
- What Our Visitors Say
- News
Events
- Chalice Well Trust Events
- Other Events at Chalice Well
Visiting Chalice Well
- Opening Times &
Admissions
- Directions
- Map
Virtual Tour
Support Chalice Well
- About Companionship
- Companion Subscription
- Volunteer
- Volunteer Application
- Make a Donation
Companion's Area
Accommodation/Venue Hire
- Workshops & Retreats
- Meetings & Seminars
- Private Access
- Enquiry Form
The Chalice Well Trust
Chilkwell Street,
Glastonbury, Somerset
BA6 8DD
T: 01458 831154
Registered Charity Number: 1147343
Company Registration Number: 08048023
Follow us on
© 2017 Chalice Well | Developed by Crisp eBusiness
Terms & Conditions
Site Info & Accessibilty
Site Map
Links
