Welcome to Community Games!
| Community Games
Jump to Navigation
btn1
btn2
btn3
goto
Express your Interest
Welcome to Community Games!
Keeping the Flame Alive
Since 2012, there have been more than 4,260 Community Games events, supported by over 89,460 volunteers with an estimated 3 million people participating.  Behind these amazing statistics are inspirational Games Organisers, bringing their communities together and rekindling community spirit, and the CSPN and the YMCA would like to thank everyone who has been involved in the programme.
During this Olympic / Paralympic year communities continue to be inspired and are using events as a catalyst for on-going community led activity to promote sport and active lifestyles and encourage local social action.
The concept is simple - bring your community together for a celebration with sports and arts activities and a simple opening or closing ceremony. Whilst the initial inspiration was the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, the programme has also helped to generate a positive community legacy from HM The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations, the Commonwealth Games and other major events, as well as providing a catalyst for local community action.  At its heart the programme helps to get families and communities more active.  It also creates many other beneficial outcomes - encouraging volunteering, engaging communities, building local partnerships and improving health.
Please do explore the site and make use of all the resources, particularly the free e-learning package. Our Stories page will give you a flavour of the programme. If you are inspired to organise a Community Games for your community you can Express Your Interest or Register Your Games. You will then be able to download the free toolkit.
Over 1800 participate in Heathcote Commu...
The second very successful Heathcote Community Games event was held in and by the Commun...
Pitsmoor Celebrates Olympic Legacy with...
Pitsmoor Adventure Playground hosted a fantastic legacy event on Saturday with over 100...
Community Games Goes Down Under
The spirit of Community Games has stretched across the globe and Heathcote a small rural...
Great advice from a Community Games Orga...
Spring is nearly here so what better time to start thinking about organising your Commun...
Home
About the GamesIntroduction from David Moorcroft OBE
The PartnersLegacy Trust UK
The County Sports Partnership Network
YMCA
History of Community GamesWenlock Olympian Games
Take Part in a Games
Organise a GameseLearning
Planning Your GamesStarting Out
Date
Key Timelines
Venue considerations
Licenses and Permits
Going Green
Volunteering Opportunities
Finance
Insurance
First Aid
Key Contacts
Event Delivery Plan
Ideas for sports activities and competitions
Tips to make your Community Games inclusive
Get in TouchExpress Your Interest
Register Your Games
Ideas and InspirationCeremonies
Cultural Activities
Sports Activities
Promoting Your GamesIntroduction to Promotion
Using the Media
Workshops
On the DayKey Actions for Event Day
How Did it Go?
Community Games StoriesPress Room
Ideas and Inspiration
Organising a Games
Planning Your Games
Promoting Your Games
Express Your interest
Register Your Games
On the Day
Ideas & Inspiration
How Did it Go?
Take Part in a Games
Find Your Nearest Games
Your Community Games
About the Games
County Sport Partnerships
Community Games Stories
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Login
