Do you remember Olive Morris? | Help to build a collective portrait of her life and times
Do you remember Olive Morris?
News and Events
About
Did you know Olive?
ROC Library
Credits
Remembering Olive Collective
29Nov14
Squatters’ homage
By Lopez de la Torre
Leave a Comment
Categories: Remembering Olive and Squatting
A nice tribute to Olive painted in the wall of the London Queer Social Centre on 432 Coldharbour Lane (ex-Joy). Photo: Alex Molano
01Sep14
Olive’s picture in Disobedient Objects
By Lopez de la Torre
Leave a Comment
Categories: Remembering Olive and Squatting
A copy of the Squatter’s Handbook, where Olive appears climbing up the side of Railton Road’s squat, is included in Disobedient Objects at the Victoria and Albert Museum: “an exhibition about the art and design produced by grassroots social movements. It will show exhibits loaned from activist groups from all over the world, bringing together for the first time many objects rarely before seen in a museum”.
The exhibition runs from 26 July 2014 – 1 February 2015. There you can read short articles from the organisers and those who lent objects for the exhibition: http://www.vam.ac.uk/blog/section/disobedient-objects
22Oct13
Lambeth’s plans for Olive Morris House
By lizobi
2 Comments
Categories: Remembering Olive
This blog has been dormant for some time but I feel the need to re-start it due to Lambeth Council’s proposals to develop Olive Morris House  under its new SDP plans.  Many of you won’t be aware of Lambeth’s plans as they appear to have been rushed through with the minimum of community consultation.   Please see http://futurebrixton.org/your-new-town-hall/your-new-town-hall-get-involved/ and also http://www.brixtonblog.com/lambeth-council-accused-of-secrecy-over-town-hall-campus-plans/16929
I want to ensure that any future plans retain the memory of Olive’s contribution and that she continues to be suitably honoured and I will therefore be keeping a close eye on the plans for Olive Morris House
I will be posting updates on how we can influence the planned proposals.  Please watch this space.
11Nov11
The Olive Morris Memorial Awards Ceremony- 2 December! RSVP today
By 4everuppity
Leave a Comment
Categories: Remembering Olive
The Olive Morris Memorial Awards have been organised by the Remembering Olive Collective (ROC) to celebrate the legacy of black woman activist Olive Morris. The Awards were created as an opportunity to celebrate the spirit of Olive Morris as it lives on in the work of a new generation of young women activists.
Women aged between 16 and 27 years of age, of African or Asian descent and involved in grassroots political work of any nature were nominated for the awards by their friends, colleagues or mentors.  Of the nominees chosen to receive an award ROC will be honouring the work of:
Brenda May Goodchild—an artist creating powerful art for the current campaigns against the criminalisation of squatting in England and Wales;
Ria Hylton—involved in the Movement for Justice campaign against the deportation of Edson Comas;
Mirella—working with So We Stand, a UK-wide popular education collective focusing on struggles for environmental and social justice;
Nim Ralph—a founding member of So We Stand, working with communities across the UK to highlight the social and racial injustice of environmental issues. Also works with MOSAIC,  an anti-racist group in Brighton;
Rukayah Sarumi—has organised lectures on black feminism and the history of the women’s movement in Britain and is now active in Streatham Labour Party; and
Iman Hussein—for her work in the Guides Movement challenging its lack of diversity and with Roots a self-education Black History collective of 6th form college pupils.
Event details:
The awards event will take place at 7 – 9.30 on Friday 2 December 2011 at The Karibu Education Centre, 7 Gresham Road, London, SW9 7PH
Tickets £3 Inclusive of food
There will be a live DJ set by Carlos Martinez (Agent of Change)
Spaces are limited so booking is essential
PLEASE RSVP to: olivemorrishq@gmail.com
Award Press Release.doc
03Apr11
Remembering Anne Ward
By Lopez de la Torre
4 Comments
Categories: Remembering Others
Anne Ward – Photograph courtesy of Lambeth Archives.
Testimonial by ROC read at Anne’s Ward Memorial Service, 4 April 2011, St George’s Church. Anne Ward was Archivist at Lambeth Archives and a member of ROC from its inception.
On behalf of all the women who made up the Remembering Olive Collective (ROC), we’d like to express our deep sadness at the passing away of Anne Ward and share a few words in her honour.
As some of you may know, Anne was instrumental in putting together the Olive Morris Collection now deposited at Lambeth Archives.
All of us at ROC have fond and vivid memories of Anne. She was an incredibly generous, encouraging, and positive woman. Always ready to help and humbly share her time and knowledge, Anne trained us all in archiving and cataloguing.
Anne expressed genuine kindness, compassion, and great humour at all times. And she was a very supportive member of the group.
Her dedication to the Do you Remember Olive Morris oral history Project was unwavering, and she was a great source of advice for all aspects of ROC’s archiving work.
Apart from sharing her fabulous wealth of archiving knowledge, Anne also shared with us her own research tracing and recording the oral histories of Irish women – another courageous and important project that she worked on tirelessly.
A feminist by example, Anne was a true inspiration to many of us younger women and we will miss her terribly. It won’t be the same to go to Lambeth Archives without her being there. But her memory lives on and, like we remember Olive Morris, we will always remember her – the ever so cheerful Anne Ward.
24Mar11
Olive Morris in the Black Achievers Wall at the International Slavery Museum, Liverpool
By Lopez de la Torre
Leave a Comment
Categories: Remembering Olive
To celebrate International Women’s Month 2011, the International Slavery Museum in Liverpool have selected Olive Morris to take pride of place this year in their Black Achievers Wall, along side Liverpool activist Ebony Gray.
The Black Achievers Wall in the Legacy gallery at the International Slavery Museum is a celebration of Black Achievers past and present. These people represent a real mix of backgrounds, eras and disciplines, from civil rights campaigners and politicians to rock stars and poets. Some are household names like Bob Marley. Others, like rebel slave leader Gaspar Yanga, are virtually unknown to the general public, but all are inspirational.
On March 10 last year, and as part as the Celebrating Women season at the Museum, former ROC member Nadja Middleton made a presentation about Olive Morris and the work of ROC at the unveiling of three new plaques on the Black Achievers Wall. Watch out this space for further news about the dedication of Olive’s image on the Achievers Wall. It is likely there will be a repeat talk by Nadja or some other former member of ROC.
28Oct10
Olive in poster for Goldsmiths’ event
By Lopez de la Torre
Leave a Comment
Categories: Remembering Olive
Our good friend Red Chidgey sent us in the post a poster featuring Olive that she found at Goldsmiths, University of London.
« Previous Entries
Email updates
Join 37 other followers
Olive Morris
Activism
Bibliography
Black Panthers
Black Women
Press
Remembering Olive
Remembering Others
Squatting
Travels
Likeminded projects
Black Panther Commemoration Committe
Black Women Movement Oral History
Bronze Woman Project
Durban Sings
Grassroots Feminism
Herman’s House
Just Seeds
Lambeth Band of Solidarity
Lewisham 1977
Memorial 2007
No-Go-Zones project
Remember Saro-Wiwa
Sam the Wheels
South London Radical History
Partners
Brixton Library
Gasworks
Lambeth Archives
Lambeth Women’s Project
Comments
Lopez de la Torre on Manchester Black Women’s Co-op
Lopez de la Torre on Manchester Black Women’s Co-op
Black History Month A Testimonial For Black Peoples – imjussayin on Manchester Black Women’s Co-op
Carol on Do you remember Olive Morris? Publication
Kath Taylor on Remembering Anne Ward
Blog at WordPress.com.
Do you remember Olive Morris?
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
