St Mary the Virgin -
east barnet parish church
east barnet parish church
st mary the virgin  -  an inclusive community
Skip to Content ↓
Welcome!
Services
Activities
Ministerial Team
Partnership
Schools
History
1000+ Appeal
Contact Us
Find Us
Links
Admin
Welcome!
Sunday 19th February
Second Sunday before Lent (Green)
10.00am: Parish Eucharist and Sunday Club
3.00pm: Evensong (BCP)
Full details click here
Noticesheet for 19th Feb 2017
St Mary’s strives to be an inclusive church that lives the gospel of Jesus Christ:
+ as proclaimed in the scriptures
+ as embodied in the traditions of the Church
+ and unfolding in our day to day experience of following Christ
Where ever you are on your journey of faith you are very welcome!
Welcome to St Mary’s East Barnet.  We are a parish in the Diocese of St Albans of the Church of England, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, the mother of Jesus.  Our church has stood here since c.1080 bearing witness to the love of God in this place.
Today we are committed to being an inclusive Christian community where all are welcome and we seek to serve all in our parish.  We gather on Sundays and other days to hear God’s word and break bread together.  Our main acts of worship are drawn from the Church of England’s Common Worship and Book of Common Prayer, but we are a ‘mixed economy’ church with a variety of activities and styles of worship.
Since 2008 we have been committed to serving our parish in partnership with our Methodist friends through the East Barnet Anglican-Methodist Partnership.  We are part of  the Inclusive Church network and are a Fairtrade parish.  Currently, we are exploring new ways in which we may serve our community through the Bishop of St Albans’ initiative “Living God’s Love.”
See the Latest News section on the far right of each page for the most recent news and information from St Mary’s, and the Pages list to help you find your way around. The latest edition of our monthly parish newspaper, The Herald can be read here. [You can download free Adobe Reader software using the link at the bottom of this page.]
Other than at service times, the church is open for private prayer, reflection and visiting on Saturdays between 10am and 2pm. The noticeboard outside the Church carries the following WARNING:
Here we practise the inclusive Gospel of Jesus Christ. This means you may be mixing with tax collectors, adulterers, hypocrites, Greeks, Jews, women as well as men, female and male priests, homosexuals, lesbians, the disabled, thieves and other sinners, the dying, white people, black people, Asians and people from other races, Muslims, Bishops, bigots, people of other faiths, strangers, heretics and people with no particular faith etc. etc. In fact, anyone like those with whom Jesus himself mixed.
So beware—this is not a private club. Welcome to all.
Share this:PrintFacebookEmail
Find us on
Search
Latest News
February Tabletop Sale
Christmas Fayre 2016
October Table Top Sale in Church
July Table Top Sale in Church
Afternoon Tea to celebrate Her Majesty’s Birthday
Pages
Welcome!
Pictures of the Church
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Services
This Week’s Worship: 13th Feb – 19th Feb 2017
Music & Liturgy
Sunday mornings
Messy Mass
Sunday evenings
Midweek
Healing & Wholeness
Baptisms & Thanksgivings
Baptism Information Pack
Service of Thanksgiving
Weddings & Marriage Blessings
Wedding Information Pack
Funerals & Memorial Services
Other Services & Celebrations
Sermon Archive
Podcasts & MP3 Audio
Table of Fees
Activities
Study & Discussion
Autumn Teaching Course
Lent at St Mary’s
Worship, Prayer & Meditation
Pilgrimages
Blessed Virgin Mary
Ecumenical Cell of Our Lady of Walsingham & St Alban
The Virgin of Vladimir
Children & Young People
Social & Community
The Herald
Ministerial Team
Partnership
East Barnet Social Justice Lecture
Schools
Resources for Schools
History
The Little Church on the Hill
Explore the Building
A Brief Tour of St Mary’s
Hatchments
The Evolution of the Church Building
Memorials
Church Records
Organ
Explore the Churchyard
Memorials
Prayer Walk
Rectors of East Barnet
Letters Patent from Her Majesty the Queen
Strange and Wonderfull Newes from Barnet, 1688
1000+ Appeal
How the 1000+ Appeal money will be used….
Christmas Fair 2011
Contact Us
Find Us
Links
Admin
Worship Information
Contact Details
Staff
Parochial Church Council
Liturgies
Parish Office
Information for Visiting Clergy & Church Officers
© 2017 east barnet parish church
designed and hosted by expert IT
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
