Gerrans Genealogy - Online Parish Clerk (OPC) website
Search billions of records on Ancestry.com
Gerrans & St Anthony in Roseland (Cornwall, UK) Online Parish Clerk Website
Welcome to the Gerrans & St Anthony in Roseland
Online Parish Clerk web site. I've also recently taken on the OPC role for
St Just in Roseland and rather than make this web site more complex I've
created a new site for St Just at
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~enggerop/st_just/What I'm trying to do
with this site is to bring together genealogical
and local historical information relating to Gerrans & St Anthony to assist those interested in
the villages and their people. My intention is to provide
original information, transcriptions of primary sources of information (such as parish records) or to provide
links to where primary sources (or transcriptions) can be accessed.
Note that if you are trying to make contact with the church at Gerrans
you will find the contact details here -
http://www.gerransandphilleighchurches.org or if it's
the Parish Council you want then try here -
http://www.cornwall.gov.uk/default.aspx?page=21496.
To find out about material that has been recently added to this web site please take a look at the
What's
New? page.
'Health Warning' - please note that I do my best to make sure my
transcriptions are accurate but it is easy to misread old handwriting.
Therefore please make sure you check the original records before you rely on
any information from my transcriptions. If you want me to double check any
particular entry then just ask me.
If you find this website useful then please let me know! I am
always open to suggestions as to
what else to include and, even better, if you have that
information available or can point me to where it is available! Feel free to contact me at
. I maintain a mailing list of people with
interests in Gerrans and St Anthony and send out an email whenever there's something new of interest on the web site (no more than
a couple of times a year)
so just let me know if you'd like me to add your name to the list. There's also
a list of surnames that are being researched.
Let me know if you would like an entry added to the list.
St Gerrans Church taken in 2005
courtesy of Mary Alice Pollard
www.justnicephotos.co.uk
© Bill O'Reilly 2008
It looks as if your browser doesn't have JavaScript enabled. That creates a couple of difficulties:
1) In order to hide email addresses from SPAM harvesters, the email addresses on
my pages are hidden by a JavaScript function. If your browser does not support JavaScript then you can probably work out my
email address by looking at the source code for this page (typically this would
be by View, Source from the top line commands). Email me and then I'll put you
in touch with the person you would like to contact.
2) I've used some JavaScript tools to create and display the menus and links
on these pages - but you will probably not be able to see them! As an alternative
there are some links at the very bottom of each page so
you may have to scroll down to see them.
Sorry for any inconvenience caused.
[Top of Page] [Home] [Census Records] [Parish
Records] [Photo Albums] [Other Items] [What's New?]
DHTML JavaScript Menu By Milonic
