Promoting Kurdish Culture - Gulan
About Us
Partnerships
Our People
Reports & Accounts
Get Involved!
News & Events
Culture of Kurdistan
Archive Photography
Contemporary Photography of Iraqi Kurdistan by Richard Wilding
Books
Films
Map of Kurdistan
Archaeological Map of Iraq, 1967
Kurdish Costumes
Contact
Search
NEXT EVENT
Return to Kurdistan
Richard Wilding
The Courtauld Institute of Art
Somerset House, Strand, London WC2R 0RN
23rd February – 29th April 2017
Monday to Saturday 9.30 am – 5.30 pm.
Admission is free and open to the public
The Courtauld will be closed for Easter from Thursday 13th April until Tuesday 18th April 2017 (inclusive)
Organised by Gulan with the Courtauld Institute of Art
Return to Kurdistan will show Iraqi Kurdistan in contemporary photographs by Richard Wilding, alongside historical photographs taken in the 1940s by Anthony Kersting.
read more
Gulan: Promoting Kurdish Culture
Gulan promotes what is best in the culture of the Kurdish people. Its objective is to help sustain the sense of Kurdish identity and to preserve the heritage of Kurdistan for the benefit of people of all cultures and identities. It respects all people, cultures and faiths.
In addition to organising Kurdish cultural events, Gulan is researching and documenting the traditional textiles, costume and jewellery of the Kurdish people. It provides information about the Kurds and Kurdistan and is building a photographic archive.
Gulan is a UK registered charity formed in 2008. It has no political or religious agenda, and does not accept funds from sources which wish to advance a particular political or religious aim through their gift.
About Gulan
Information about Gulan’s trustees, team and supporters
read more
News & Events
Gulan’s exhibitions and activities
read more
Kurdish Costumes
Photographs of traditional Kurdish costumes and jewellery
read more
The Culture of Kurdistan
Information about Kurdistan and its culture
read more
Company Number: 6651236     Charity Number: 1126372
FacebookTwitter
Scroll to top
