Eastside Community Heritage: Hidden Histories
Home
About us
Staff
Links
Newsletter
Training
Archive
Our Work
Projects
Current
All Projects
Galleries
Images
Audio
Video
Exhibitions
Publications
Events
Consultancy
Archive
Podcast
Your memories
Contact Us
ECH Shop
Catalogue
http://online-drugs-store.net/buy-vagra-online-cheap/ online-drugs-store.net http://canadian-pharmacy365.com/buy-xenical-online-cheap/ canadian-pharmacy365.com canadian-pharm24.net
buy propecia goldpharm.net
http://goldpharm.net/buy-glucophage-online-cheap/
Welcome to Hidden Histories
Eastside Community Heritage
Eastside Community Heritage seeks to build, service and enable partnerships which record, document and preserve the experiences of different communities, through the provision of social, cultural, educational and historical activities. Our methodology incorporates education and training, with schools, families and adult learners. Eastside produces exhibitions, publications and multi media stimuli which are an opportunity for all cultures and age ranges to engage in a proactive discovery of their own and their community’s history, culture and heritage. The organisation is an accredited cultural heritage training centre, specialising in Oral History – NVQ Level 1, 2 and 3.
In 1921 the FA ruled to ban women playing football in affiliated pitches. Prior to this, women’s football had become a popular pass time for both spectators and the women playing in some cases exceeding the popularity of the men’s game. We are looking for your support to tell the East London Story which has remained hidden for women’s history month 2017. Please donate to our crowdfunding page:
https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/women-s-football-the-east-end-story-sport
Making Sense of Art in Dagenham with AbPhabJewish Migration Routes: From East End to EssexBethnal Green Stories
Tweets by @EastsideCH
© 2010 Eastside Community Heritage Eastside Community Heritage.
Parish Centre, Cardinal Heenan Centre, 326 High Road, Ilford, Essex, IG1 1QP.
Eastside Community Heritage is a registered charity (1071668) and a company limited by guarantee (3509623)
email: office@ech.org.uk
telephone: 020 8553 3116
Disclaimer and Notice and takedown policy
If you are a rights holder and are concerned that you have found material on our website, for which you have not given permission, or is not covered by a limitation or exception in national law, please contact us in writing stating the following:
1.	Your contact details.
2.	The full bibliographic details of the material.
3.	The exact and full url where you found the material.
It will then be removed as soon as possible.
