Little Chalfont
Home
About Us
Local News
Nature Park
Village Day
Organisations
Village Diary
Local Walks
Local Images
Links
Quick Links
Community Information Directory
Little Chalfont Parish Council
Little Chalfont Library
(opens in new window)
Village Diary
Walks in the area
Images of Little Chalfont
Historic photos
New Nature Park
(opens in new window)
Little Chalfont Village News
Nightingales Corner
Library and Village Hall
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. If you continue without changing
your settings, we will assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on this website.
However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time.
Click here for more information.
Loading...
Search
The images below can be enlarged by clicking on them.
All images on this site are copyright and may not be reproduced in any form without permission.
Community Association
Newsletter
Download a copy of the
January 2017 newsletter here
Parish Council Newsletter
(Autumn 2016)
Download a copy here
Village Day 2017
will be held on 17 June
Images from the 2016 Day (by Glyn Strong) can be seen here
Latest News
Community Library is 10 years old
New Community Centre
for Litte Chalfont?
Click on the links for more on each
of these stories
Little Chalfont Nature Park
For full information about the park
click here (opens in new window)
Details of the Public Appeal and how
to donate can be accessed here.
Please support this exciting community project
Remembrance Sunday in
Little Chalfont
History of
Little Chalfont
Little Chalfont is situated in the county of Buckinghamshire, on the edge of the Chiltern Hills and about 30 miles from central London.The Metropolitan Railway reached Little Chalfont in 1889. However, the village didn't really develop until the 1920's when land was released for housing to become part of Sir John Betjeman's "Metroland".
The present population is around 6000. The station is served by London Underground Metropolitan line and by Chiltern Railways resulting in excellent transport to and from London;  Marylebone station can be reached in little over 30 minutes.
The village has a post office and a building society as well as a pharmacy, a Tesco Express and about 30 other shops. There are three dental practices, a doctors surgery and an optician. There are many places to eat including Chinese, Indian and  Italian restaurants. The ‘Sugar Loaf’ public house and the White Lion Inn both serve food.
There are two Primary Schools plus Dr. Challoner’s (Girls) High School. There are three churches; Anglican, Methodist and Roman Catholic.
The Village Hall is centrally positioned next to the library.
A major employer is GE Healthcare with three sites in the Village including its world headquarters.
The head office of ‘The Entertainer’, a large toy retailer, is situated in the village.Little Chalfont became a separate Parish in 2007 following a poll of local people who overwhelmingly voted in favour. The new Parish comprises the old Little Chalfont ward of Amersham Town Council plus what was previously the northern part of Chalfont St. Giles.
2nd Saturday of each month
9.00 - 1.00 p.m.
Village Hall and car park
Farmers’ Market
Thames Valley Farmers’ Market Co-operative
Good quality produce
Also - Craft Fair
Refreshments available
For more events  go to
Village Diary
Free 1 hour parking in
Snells Wood Car-park
Don’t forget to display a valid ticket available from the machine
Saturday 25th February
Amersham Concert Club
Dr. Challoner’s High School,
Cokes Lane, Little Chalfont
RachmaninovUgne Tiskute - viola   Alexandra Vaduva -  piano
Forthcoming Events
Little Chalfont
Community’s Action Plan
interactive consultation
17 - 20 March
in the Village Hall
Download leaflet for full details including response form
Threat to Green Belt
The District Council is preparing a Local Plan which will set out policies used to
determine planning matters in the period to 2036.
The process includes a review of the green belt and parts of Little Chalfont were
identified as areas which might be removed from the green belt to allow for additional
housing. The preferred options paper has now been published which shows one large
area of the village has been included. The full details can be read on a leaflet
which has been distributed to all homes in Little Chalfont.
To download a copy, click here
To learn more and support the  ‘Save Little Chalfont’ campaign  click here
For Facebook page,  Click here
Invitation to join the
Community Association
Click here for more details
Little Chalfont
Community Action Plan
The present action plan has been very successful in bringing about a range of village
improvement projects, which you, the community, told us were important.
The plan now needs to be refreshed and, as it is YOUR plan, we  need you to tell
us what should be included.
For a leaflet explaining the need to Refresh the Community Action Plan plus the questions
to answer  click here
A web-form has been set up to help make you comments. It will send the completed
response back to the email address given. Click here
For a copy of the present Community Action Plan click here
General
Parish Council
Churches
Schools
Sports
Youth
