The Ostle Family History Net - Welcome
Welcome!
The Ostles are an old Quaker farming family originating from the area
around Silloth and Abbeytown in North Cumbria, England. Today Ostles are living in all
parts of the United Kingdom, and in Germany, Canada, the U.S.A. and Australia. We are very
pleased to meet you.
Just click on any of the images in this box to go to the page with the full story,
or use the menu,
or just scroll down for a quick introduction to the family
Our Name. . .
. . . has been spelt Ostell, Ostel and Ostle. According to the Oxford
Dictionary of Surnames, it probably derives from the same root as
hostel, hotel and hospital and may mean someone who offers hospitality. However, a tradition in
some branches of the family suggests there may be a link to the small town of Osteel in Lower Saxony,
now part of Germany but formally in The Netherlands.
Our Homelands. . .
. . . lie in the extreme north-west corner of England in the old county of Cumberland, now
part of Cumbria, not far from the Scottish border.
Click on the map to go to a more detailed one of the area within
the box
To learn much more about our homelands click below to visit the Holme St. Cuthbert History Group's Website
Our Story. . .
. . . begins in the time of King Henry VIII
and continues through the 17th and 18th centuries when the family became Quakers and were
severely presecuted for their beliefs. By Victorian times the family had spread far and wide --
while many farmed the land, others' jobs ranged from railway navvy to railway director!
Click on the old book for
a quick, illustrated version or for the full details use the Family History option on the menu.
NETSCAPE users click here
Contact me. . .
. . .Peter Ostle in Carlisle. I'm always happy to hear from visitors to the site
especially if you have a connection to the family.
Click here to drop me an email right now
Free DHTML scripts provided by
Dynamic Drive
© 2000-2004, J.P. Ostle and others where indicated
Visitors:
On other pages
Family History Menu
John Ostle's Journal
Friends & Neighbours
Scrapbook
Forum and Links
