Swansea Round Table No.57 – Fun and Fellowship for men 18 – 45
Swansea Round Table No.57
Fun and Fellowship for men 18 - 45
Fun and Fellowship for men 18 - 45Home
About Round Table
Community Work
Upcoming Events
World Meeting 2017
Aims & Objectives
Join Us
Contact Us
Join Us Want to get involved in your local community? Meet like minded men for fellowship and fun?Read more »
World Meeting 2017 Swansea Round Table host the Euro (World?) Meeting in Swansea 19th - 21st May 2017Read more »
Upcoming Events See what events are upcoming in our busy programme of upcoming events.Read more »
Happy New Year! We are looking forward to welcoming you all to Swansea in May. Swansea is a fantastic city with a very active Round Table and 41 Club. We have some of the best beaches in Western Europe, a top flight football team, marinas and beautiful countryside. We’ve prepared […]
Euro 2017 Update
If you are reading this and you are after the 2015 Christmas sleigh dates then here they are: Sunday – 6th Parc Penllergaer Saturday – 7th Tycoch Tuesday – 8th Mayals Wednesday – 9th Newton Thursday – 10th Derwen Fawr Friday – 11th Pennard Saturday – 12th Mumbles Market Sunday – […]
Sleigh dates 2015
Swansea Round Table, established in 1933, is a social networking and registered charity open to men aged between 18 and 45. Over the last few years thousands of pounds have been raised by holding events such as charity collections, curry nights and the Christmas ‘sleigh run’. Local charities and good […]
Swansea Round Table collection at Swansea City vs Manchester United
Six Swansea Tablers visited our neighbours on Saturday the 6th of June to support the incoming Chairman Nigel. Old friends of past and current table were treated to an excellent meal during the handover at the New Inn, Clydach. In attendance from Swansea was Chairman Nigel Evans (confused?) who was […]
Swansea 57 visit Swansea Valley 795 Round Table
Swansea Round Table attended the 60th Charter of our daughter Table Neath 434 on the 14th March 2015. An excellent mixed evening both Tablers and ladies were treated to a four course meal at the Glynclydach hotel. There were plenty of tables in attendance from around the Area 43 district […]
Neath Round Table 60th Charter
Swansea Table descended on the Verve in Uplands for steak, beer and hopeful of a welsh win over the English. We had the whole of the upstairs to ourselves, right in front of a 65" screen in anticipation of the game. Steaks were eaten, pitchers were ordered and a massive […]
England v Wales 6 Nations Rugby and Rhidian’s induction into ...
24th January 2015. Adrian, Hefin and Ian got dressed to impress and made their way to the ivy bush hotel to celebrate the Carmarthenshire 80th charter. A few drinks made by our very own cocktail maker- Adrian Evans, made the train journey all that more quicker! We arrived early enough […]
Carmarthen 80th charter
Are you interested in finding out about Round Table? Swansea Round Table are holding a new members night on Friday the 16th of January 2015. If you are aged 18 – 45 and interested then get in touch using enquiries@swansearoundtable.org.uk Wednesday 21st January business meeting in the Park Inn Mumbles […]
New members night 2015 & January Events
When you are lucky to live in an area of outstanding beauty , you know that  you will be lucky enough to get a visit from another round table at some point in the year, and so it was with Long Eaton Round Table! They had planned a walk along […]
A visit from Long Eaton Round Table
On a warm October weekend, swansea round table welcomed back to former members from the land of the fffords. We had visited them early in the year and it was time for the return leg! Arne and Nicolai had a fantastic time- having spent 4 years living in swansea, it […]
From Norway to Tenby.
Post navigation
← Older posts
· © 2017 Swansea Round Table No.57 · Designed by Press Customizr · Powered by
·
