Dream Cars: BMW Finance & Porsche Finance
Dream Cars: BMW Finance & Porsche Finance
Home
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Using Tesla Finance to get the latest electric car
The Telsa model X has long been my sports car of choice, this month I took the plunge and used Tesla Finance to make my latest purchase, so this is my blog discussing how you can do this too! I’ve bought previous models of Tesla outright meaning that I’ve had to hand over substantial sums of money to dealerships, now I’ve typically bought my cars 3 years old to avoid the major devaluations that occur in the first 3 years of any cars life. By waiting 3 years to buy a car, it’s very easy to get over a 50% reduction in the actual price being paid. Yes, it’s true that you’re car isn’t cutting edge and has previously been driven by someone else but if you pick your seller carefully, you can get a real bargain.
There’s no doubt though that if you have the ability to pay with cash rather than having to use car finance then you’re going to be in a stronger position. It’ll always remain a fact that it’s much easier to bargain with a car dealership with cash than it is when they are supplying you with Tesla financing. Generally though, if you’re looking to keep a healthy bank balance, a Tesla with a good finance rate can prove to be an excellent option.
How I used Tesla finance to my advantage
There are many types of BMW finance on offer out there if you take a little time to shop around. There are also different kinds of agreements that you can use, as an example, it may be worth looking into higher purchase agreements, which involve an upfront fee which reduces future payments before you buy your car.
So you’ve figured out how you’re going to pay for your new Tesla X3, what can you expect from the latest installment of these magnificent cars I hear you ask? Well, I recently test drove one in my local Tesla dealership and I have to say both the handling and acceleration show vast improvements over previous years. They really have pulled out all the stops with the latest supercar.
Test driving the new 911 with Porsche Finance
There are few cars that are few cars that are as thrilling to drive as a Porsche 911, they have the performance of a Ferrari without the price tag. You can often get anyway with driving one on a daily basis without attracting too much attention these days, in shorts, they are the car lovers car. By using Porsche finance I was able to add one of these superb cars to my collection along with my latest purchase of a BMW M3 and the latest Land Rover with my Land Rover finance deal that I got. Of the three performance cars, I would have to say that the Porsche 911 is my favourite to use on a track day.
Porsche have long held a reputation for being an exclusive brand, in recent years though they have looked to expand their market a little by bringing out models such as the Boxster which are a lot more affordable to your average buyer. Although the performance specs haven’t been as good on these cars, they are a lot easier to finance and pay for.
Porsche finance has made these performance cars more available
As well as creating new, more affordable models for people to buy Porsche have also improved their finance options where payments can be deferred or spread out over a greater period of time. By using Porsche finance people can now get some of the top of the range cars out there for under £1000 per month, something which wasn’t on offer before. As with any for of car financing though, it’s always best to check that you can keep up with the monthly payment levels before you actually purchase.
Next week, I’ll be taking my new sports car to the track and reporting back on how it handles, I’ll also be taking my Land Rover to see how that holds up against the Porsche too.
Search for:
