NCVO - Volunteering
Join usWork for usVenue hireEmail updatesContact us
Sign in using OpenID Connect
HomeAbout usServices and supportPolicy and researchVolunteeringTraining and eventsBlogsMembers' area
Home  >  Volunteering
I want to volunteerWhy volunteer?Volunteer CentresFind a Volunteer CentreIf volunteering goes wrongVolunteering and benefitsVolunteering in Care Homes
Shopping cart
Cart is empty
View cart
Checkout
Volunteering
We are committed to supporting, enabling and celebrating volunteering in all its diversity. Volunteering is someone spending time, unpaid, doing something that aims to benefit the environment or someone who they're not closely related to. Volunteering must be a choice freely made by each individual.
NCVO doesn’t broker or place volunteers in charities directly but we have a selection of resources to help you find a suitable opportunity.
I want to volunteer
Tips on how to volunteer
What to do if volunteering goes wrong
Volunteer Centres
Volunteer Centres are our local delivery partners, providing assistance to individual volunteers and volunteer involving organisations.
Volunteer Centre Quality Accreditation (VCQA)
Volunteer Centre managers Google group – This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it, with your name and Volunteer Centre name to join
Volunteer management
NCVO offers a range of resources on volunteer management, including a Studyzone video training course Good Practice in Volunteer Management.
Our publications include the best-selling Volunteering Impact Assessment Toolkit. We also have some free volunteering downloads for NCVO members, on topics including DBS, health and safety, and expenses.
We also run bespoke consultancy on a variety of volunteering themes. Find out more about our consultancy and how to get in touch.
Volunteers' Week
Volunteers' Week is an annual event, coordinated by NCVO, which takes place on 1-7 June, recognising and celebrating the contribution made by volunteers nationwide.
National Volunteering Forum
Our National Volunteering Forum brings together volunteer-involving organisations and volunteer infrastructure bodies from around England to discuss issues of shared concern, feed into NCVO’s policy positions and to network. We run three events every year, including at least one outside of London.
Previous forums have discussed a variety of topics:
Volunteering and social cohesion in a post Brexit world, September 2016
Demonstrating the impact of volunteering, May 2016
Employer supported volunteering, November 2015
The post-2015 general election landscape, July 2015
Accreditation
Investing in Volunteers (IiV)
Benchmark the quality of your volunteer management and involvement.
Investing in Volunteers for Employers (IiVE)
The UK award recognising commitment to best practice in employer supported volunteering.
Volunteer Centre Quality Accreditation (VCQA)
Strengthen your organisation, provide a better service for your users and increase funding.
NCVO offers a 10% discount on quality standards for members. Take a look at all our quality standards.
Step on Board
Step on Board trains and helps your senior employees and emerging leaders to take up positions on the boards of charities and other organisations. It's an innovative volunteering programme which is a cost-effective and sustainable way of providing professional development. Employees will be given training, their skills then matched with an organisation, coaching while in post and finally an impact assessment will take place after the placement.
Research
NCVO works to positively influence the external environment on behalf of the voluntary sector. One of the ways in which we do this is through our policy and research work. We have developed a strong evidence base on voluntary sector issues and work with our members to influence government and other decision makers.
NCVO UK Civil Society Almanac provides statistics on volunteering and the voluntary sector.
The Institute of Volunteering Research evidence bank
Read more about NCVO's policy work around volunteering.
Latest press releases
Charities and volunteering are at the heart of our shared society
Sir Stuart Etherington, chief executive of NCVO, said:
I was very pleased to hear the prime minister’s speech today. She is entirely correct that the state alone cannot solve problems, and that different types of organisations share the responsibility for improving our society, but also that between us we have the skills to make it happen.
National Citizen Service should work more closely with local charities, says NCVO
The National Council for Voluntary Organisations (NCVO), which represents charities and volunteering, has welcomed the government's announcement that the National Citizen Service (NCS) will be given a royal charter along with measures to enhance its accountability. NCS has provided positive experiences for many young people and helped them develop important skills.
However, NCVO said that NCS could still do more to work with local charities to ensure it reaches its potential as a starting point for life-long volunteering.
Latest Volunteering – NCVO Blogs
Posted on February 17, 2017
by Nick Ockenden
The critical role of volunteers within parks
Practical support | Cross sector working | Public services | Volunteering
Posted on February 10, 2017
by Kristen Stephenson
The changing face of volunteering and four ways you can respond
Practical support | Volunteering
Posted on January 31, 2017
by Elizabeth Chamberlain
Policy Round-Up: January 2017
Policy | Charity law and regulation | Governance | Public services | Volunteering
Posted on January 30, 2017
by Andy Curtis
Proving the value of mentoring and befriending projects
Practical support | Research | Strategy | Volunteering
About us
NCVO champions the voluntary sector and volunteering because they’re essential for a better society. We do this by connecting, representing and supporting voluntary organisations.
More from NCVO
NCVO KnowHow NonProfit
Funding Central
UK Civil Society Almanac
How Charities Work
Investing in Volunteers
Investing in Volunteers for Employers
Institute for Volunteering Research
NCVO Mentoring and Befriending
Housekeeping
AboutContactSitemapPrivacyTerms and conditionsAccessibility
Follow us
Email updates
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
Slideshare
©
2017
NCVO (The National Council for Voluntary Organisations), Registered in England as a charitable company limited by guarantee.
Society Building, 8 All Saints Street, London N1 9RL. | Registered Company Number 198344 | Registered Charity Number 225922
Site by Clickingmad
