William Bloom – William Bloom
Toggle SlidingBar Area
HomeVideoArticlesWorkshopsBooksSpiritual CompanionsDiplomaGuidelines and AgreementDiploma ApplicationAboutContact
Home
Home
Home
William Bloom
2017-02-08T22:25:29+00:00
Compassion and Consciousness • True Development
Inspiring and Insightful Workshops this Spring in Glastonbury• The Endorphin Effect
• The Power of Spiritual Practice
• Your Life Purpose
• Five Initiations
• Holistic Leadership
• How to Teach Meditation
• Graceful Death
• Empaths & Psychics
>> More Information Click Here
February 2017
Donald Trump Meditation
You may want to use this strategy too.
I am meditating with the image of Donald Trump surrounded by the giants of Mount Rushmore. His ego calming down as he relaxes into being more humble and secure, understanding and experiencing the significance of his role and status.
Hold him in love.
This may help the situation.
Blog December 2016
Wrestling Demons and Transforming Paperwork
How I transformed an awful attitude …  >> Read more
Video 18 November 2016
New Secrets of the Inner Smile Video
The whole talk given in Glastonbury has been uploaded.
>> Watch it
Blog 10 November 2016
Spiritual Maturity in Times of Agitation
When the world is shaking with political upheaval it is easy to become distressed and overexcited. Unfortunately our vibrations of distress and agitation only make the situation worse.   >> Read moreAutumn Diploma Course Fully SubscribedThe Autumn course Diploma in Practical Spirituality and Wellness is fully subscribed. This is the first ever Ofqual accredited course in spirituality. It is also the gateway to becoming a Spiritual Companion.Effective Leaders Quietly Radiate a Good Vibe - Do You?
Nelson Mandela
Care assistant or Pope, parent or president, good leaders have a good vibe and a benevolent presence.
This vibe spills over to reassure and encourage. It supports the growth and healthy development of everyone.
But to maintain this benevolence and not burn out you need the right fuel. Some of this fuel comes from self-care: sleep, diet, exercise.
But the greatest source of fuel and support is life’s wonder and energy.
Spiritual practice teaches you how to plug into this Source.
One of the secrets to understanding Nelson Mandela’s success is his long imprisonment. In prison he not only developed his political strategy, he also learned how to plug into the benevolence of life. This developed his character, fuelled his kindness and his vision of a ‘rainbow nation’.Latest Articles
Ley Lines, Animals and Dance
Do animals move around following ley lines? This was the question recently put to me by a researcher from a wildlife charity. I loved the question because it focused my ...Read More
Why I Meditate – A List of Reasons
There was a mixed reaction from the audience when I said that I meditated for two hours every day. A few shook their heads in concerned bewilderment. Why was he ...Read More
50 RECOMMENDED MIND-BODY-SPIRIT BOOKS
This list was put together after a consultation process involving over 200 people. Anam Cara - Spiritual Wisdom from the Celtic World, John O'Donohue, Bantam, 1999 Anatomy of Spirit, Caroline ...Read More
New Research on Spiritual Healing
March 2015 A GASP There is often an audible gasp of shock in my groups when I share that there is overwhelming evidence for the health benefits of spirituality, but ...Read More
How Does Intuition Work?
The Brain, Confabulation and Subtle Information The moment I see a patient standing in the doorway I can intuit their syndrome. Thus spoke my father, Philip, a Harley Street psychiatrist ...Read More
Latest Videos
Secrets of the Inner Smile video
Secrets of the Inner Smile (68 mins) Complete Class - November 2016 This is the full presentation of the talk I gave in Glastonbury hosted by the Positive Living Group ...View Video
The Science and Health Benefits of Self-Care (3:11)
This video gives an overview of the science and health benefits of the Everyone Cares self-care strategies. All the strategies influence your body's neuro-endocrinal system helping to reduce tissue tension, ...View Video
Soaking (2:17)
Soaking is an enjoyable and easy strategy that supports your health and wellbeing. 'Soaking' means: Whenever you feel anything good, no matter how slight, let it in. This is the ...View Video
One Brain Cell (3:10)
When exhausted or down all you need to do is switch on just one brain cell to focus on self-care. So there you are feeling down. Inside your mind you ...View Video
Guided Inner Smile Exercise (7:29)
This video guides you through doing the wonderful Inner Smile exercise. It takes you stage by stage through the process of how to send caring messages through your neuro-endocrinal system ...View Video
View All VideosBooks
The Power of Modern Spirituality
Today's world makes ever-increasing demands on us, but in modern spirituality we can find heartening new solutions that give us ...Read More
The Endorphin Effect
Endorphins are the miracle hormones found in everybody that kill pain, provide the foundation for good health and create physical ...Read More
Endorphin Effect CD
THE ENDORPHIN EFFECT CD Guided Meditations for Health and WellBeing This CD contains all the guided meditations for the Endorphin ...Read More
Feeling Safe
Feeling safe is vital to leading a successful and healthy life This much needed book provides effective strategies for managing ...Read More
Psychic Protection
This is the definitive classic on psychic protection, now in its 23rd reprint Are you sensitive to negative energies and ...Read More
Working with Angels
In Working with Angels bestselling author and teacher Dr William Bloom presents reveals a world that lies behind everyday reality ...Read More
Leylines and Ecology
This is the full text of the booklet first published in 1985 by Gothic Image Illustrated by Marko Pogacnik Sections: ...Read More
Soulution: The Holistic Manifesto
How Today's Spirituality Changes Everything "At last - the book that puts it all together for us: spirituality, healthcare and ...Read More
Encyclopedia of Mind, Body and Spirit (eds)
Co-edited with Professor David Peters and Judy Hall Bringing together a range of expert authors from various fields of complementary ...Read More
Personal Identity, National Identity, International Relations
Personal Identity, National Identity and International Relations is the first psychological study of nation-building, nationalism, mass mobilisation and foreign policy ...Read More
The Penguin Book of New Age and Holistic Writing
This is an anthology of holistic writings and gems. first published in hardback by Penguin as 'The Holistic Revolution' As ...Read More
View all books >>
My Calendar
2017
» Endorphin Effect: Mind-Body Wellbeing
Glastonbury Saturday 11 March 10:00-5:00
» Spiritual Practice: The Ultimate Fuel
Glastonbury Sunday 12 March 10:00-5:00
» Secrets of the Inner Smile
Bath Wednesday 29 March 7:30 pm
» Your Life’s Purpose
Glastonbury Saturday 22 April 10:00-5:00
» The Five Initiations
Glastonbury Sunday 23 April 10:00-5:00
» Holistic Leadership
Glastonbury Saturday 27 May 10:00-5:00
» How to Teach/Lead Meditation
Glastonbury Sunday 28 May 10:00-5:00
» Into the Light – A Graceful Death
Glastonbury Saturday 17 June 10:00-5:00
» Empaths & Psychics Masterclass
Glastonbury Sunday 18 June 10:00-5:00
» How to Teach and Lead Meditation
Findhorn Foundation 19-26 August
Sign Up for Williams eLetter
Put your email address in the box and click the 'Send' button. We will never share your address. Many thanks.
Email
Please wait...
Thank you for signing up!
Creative Commons 2016
All material
on this site can be used for non-commercial purposes providing it is not altered and this site is
credited.
