feminists@law
an open access journal of feminist legal scholarship
This is the Nav bar
ISSN 2046-9551
Happenings
Confronting Gender Inequality in Uncertain Times. Wednesday 11 January 2017. Time: 6.30-8pm,LSE, Old Theatre, Old Building
9.12.2016
Since the publication of the LSE Gender Institute’s Commission on Gender, Inequality and Power in the Autumn of 2015, we have seen a range of policy initiatives in the economic, political, legal and media realms. But the climate in which policy is being formulated and implemented has also been transformed – in already obvious but also less calculable ways – by the outcome of last summer’s referendum on the UK’s membership of the EU and the formation of a new government. In this event, a distinguished panel of speakers drawn from each of the spheres tackled by the Commission will assess the likely impact of developments since the LSE report. What is the outlook for the Commission’s proposals and for gender equality in a post-Brexit world in which the prospects of increased public spending are uncertain; resort to the European Court of Justice is in question; and social cleavages have been thrown into sharp relief? Click here for more information
Transformation of Gender: Reflections in Legal Research and Practice. Nordic Law and Gender Conference 2017 – University of Turku, Finland: May 11-12th, 2017.
9.12.2016
Call for papers. The conference calls for different perspectives on how the changing understandings of sex and gender and intersectionality are reflected in law, legal research, legal practices and theories. Theoretical and legal papers discussing any field of law are welcomes. Doctoral students and post doc researchers are encouraged to submit papers. A call for papers will be opened in January, 2017. Click here for more information
Betsy Stanko, 'The Policing and Prosecution of Rape' from Donatella Alessandrini
on Vimeo.
Font Size
Language
Select Language
Euskara
Català
Čeština
Dansk
Deutsch
English
Español (España)
Français (Canada)
ελληνικά
Hrvatski
Italiano
Nederlands
Norsk
فارسی
Português (Portugal)
Português (Brasil)
Limba Română
Русский
Svenska
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
日本語
简体中文
繁體中文
Hosted By
Part of the
PKP Publishing Services Network
Home
About
Login
Register
Search
Current
Archives
Announcements
Accessibility
Happenings Archive
Home >
feminists@law
feminists@law
Photograph by Hannah Tiernan, reproduced with permission.
Announcements
Call for Special Section Proposals
feminists@law warmly invites proposals for special sections of the journal which advance the aims of the journal as set out below and in ‘About the Journal’.
Posted: 2013-06-05
More...
Submit an Article, Review or Multimedia Item
For details, see the Section Policies for Articles, Reviews and Multimedia items under the 'About' tab above.
Posted: 2013-02-09
More...
Journal Description
feminists@law is a peer-reviewed online journal which aims to publish critical, interdisciplinary, theoretically engaged scholarship that extends feminist debates and analyses relating to law and justice (broadly conceived).
Posted: 2011-03-24
More...
New in feminists@law
Recently published and forthcoming items in feminists@law.
Posted: 2016-12-28
More...
More Announcements...
feminists@law, Kent Law School, email feministsatlaw@kent.ac.uk
