Trafford and Hulme CAMRA - Home
Trafford & Hulme CAMRA
Campaigning for real ale, pubs & drinkers' rights since 1977
Search ...
Search thcamra.org.uk
Sidebar
×
Full site menu
HomeAbout Branch HandbookBranch AreaBranch CommitteeCAMRA GlossaryYoung MembersVolunteerContact Us Join CAMRABranch DiaryNews & FeaturesCAMRA News Pub NewsGeneral Articles DiaryPubs & ClubsPub & Club NewsPub Maps Pub AwardsOnline Pub GuidePub & club survey formsPubs By TramCAMRA DiscountsAssets of Community ValueBreweriesDunham Massey Brewing CoBootleg Brewing CoStubborn Mule BreweryStubborn MuleBeer FestivalsChorlton Beer Festival Manchester Beer & Cider FestivalMore....LocAleAwardsCider & PerryCider and Perry NewsBeer scoring Join CAMRALinks Contact
Home
About
Branch Handbook
Branch Area
Branch Committee
CAMRA Glossary
Young Members
Volunteer
Contact Us
Join CAMRA
Branch Diary
News & Features
CAMRA News
Pub News
General Articles
Diary
Pubs & Clubs
Pub & Club News
Pub Maps
Pub Awards
Online Pub Guide
Pub & club survey forms
Pubs By Tram
CAMRA Discounts
Assets of Community Value
Breweries
Dunham Massey Brewing Co
Bootleg Brewing Co
Stubborn Mule Brewery
Beer Festivals
Chorlton Beer Festival
Manchester Beer & Cider Festival
More....
LocAle
Awards
Cider & Perry
Cider and Perry News
Beer scoring
Join CAMRA
Links
Contact
WELCOME TO THE TRAFFORD & HULME BRANCH OF THE CAMPAIGN FOR REAL ALE
The Campaign For Real Ale (CAMRA) campaigns for real ale, real pubs and consumer rights. We are an independent, voluntary organisation with over 180,000 members.
The Trafford & Hulme Branch is one of 9 branches in Greater Manchester. The branch area covers the whole of the Borough of Trafford (that's places like Altrincham, Sale, Stretford and Urmston), plus Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Hulme & Whalley Range and some of north east Cheshire. We are one of CAMRA's larger branches with over 1000 members. We hold regular monthly meetings plus a varied programme of social events.
To learn more about the branch click here, or browse our website to find out what we do.
Pub of The Season - Winter 2016/17
Details
Awards
Pub of the Season
30 January 2017
Print
Email
Trafford & Hulme branch have voted the Old Packet House, Navigation Road, Broadheath as their Pub of the Season for winter 2016/17. Built in the 1770’s the Old Packet House was the second stopping place on the journey, by boat or barge, from Manchester to Runcorn along the Bridgewater Canal, providing shelter for passengers and storage facilities for packages for dispatch or collection. Now run, since 2014, by Claire Hardman and her partner. After a recent external refurbishment the pub is now a cheery & welcoming local serving two cask ales, Little Bollington from Dunham Massey and Golden Best from Timothy Taylors.
Very much a local’s pub, Claire and her staff work hard to support the local community with charity events, karaoke every Friday, live music on occasional Saturdays and Quiz Nights on Monday.
Food is served daily from noon until 8:30pm and for those wishing to stay over there are four en-suite bedrooms at reasonable rates for B&B.
Most Improved Pub 2016 - Presentation Evening
Details
Awards
Pub & Club Annual Awards
07 December 2016
Print
Email
The Cheshire Tap was voted the Most Improved pub having transformed the former Classroom on Railway Street into a cool bar which has been a popular addition to the town's beer scene since opening in December 2015. While the site's previous incarnation was popular, it offered little to attract fans of quality beers whereas The Cheshire Tap features four real ales and a range of "craft" keg and bottles.
In keeping with its name, the bar regularly features Cheshire based breweries - on presentation evening two beers from Poynton Brewery were on offer - the flagship Vulcan Best Bitter and the newly launch Kiwi - a New Zealand hopped pale ale. The other two pumps featured Black Shire Stout from Tweed and Robinson's Dizzy Blonde. Pictured are general manager Martin, bar manager James with branch chair John O'Donnell
Best Newcomer 2016 - Presentation Evening
Details
Awards
Pub & Club Annual Awards
07 December 2016
Print
Email
The 2016 Best Newcomer award went to the Craftsman in Altrincham.
The Best Newcomer award went to  The Craftsman which opened in December 2015 in a vacant unit on Stamford New Road (although the site had hosted a bar many years ago). Here six handpumps have plain pumpclips which just feature a number which refers to the large blackboard above the bar. On the presentation night there were beers from across the county - Brightside's Odin topped the list with the rest of the board featuring UBU from Warwick's Purity Brewery, IPA from XT brewery in Berkshire, Yeovil Ale's Yeo Ho Ho, Cross Bay's Sunshine and Kits Coty from London's Caveman brewery. Although the bar took a few months to find its feet, it has built a steady following in the town and was busy when CAMRA came to present their certificate. Pictured is bar manager Ian Peel with branch chair John.
Community Pub of the Year 2016 - Presentation Evening
Details
Awards
Pub & Club Annual Awards
30 January 2017
Print
Email
Trafford and Hulmes Community Pub of The Year 2016 is the Lord Nelson, Urmston. Known locally as The Nellie, this pub is everything you expect from a community pub.
Always busy, it gets particularly crowded for sports events and on quiz night (Tuesdays) and 'Colin's famous disco' on Saturday nights.
Sky Sports is shown, often with separate matches in separate rooms.
Here we see John the branch chairman presenting the award presented to Julie and Ian the management team who have run " the Nellie " for the last 17 years.
The Place for Member's Discussion
discourse.camra.org.uk
Next Events
0000-00-00:
Item Title of Your event
Latest Updates
Trip to Chester - 25th Feb 2017
Chorlton-cum-Hardy Map
Bus Routes
Pub of The Season - Winter 2016/17
Community Pub of the Year 2016 - Presentation Evening
Closed Craftsman Brewery reincarnated as Souled Out Brewery
Best LocAle Pub 2016 - Presentation Evening
Popular Items
Join CAMRA
Contact Us
About Us
Branch Boundary in Google Maps
Where is Trafford & Hulme Branch?
Tweets from @thcamra
Tweets by @thcamra
Facebook
You are here:  Home
Latest from CAMRA
Cheltenham Motor Club is crowned CAMRA Club of the Year once again
CAMRA calls for assurances from Heineken ahead of Punch pubs deal
CAMRA calls for a penny off your pint
CAMRA celebrates unique beer festivals this Valentine’s Day
Login
Remember Me
Forgot your username?
Forgot your password?
This is the website of the Trafford and Hulme Branch of CAMRA. The views expressed are not necessarily those of the webmaster, Campaign for Real Ale Ltd or any of its branches. Whilst every effort is made to ensure that the information on the web site is accurate and up to date, no responsibility for errors and omissions can be accepted. If you spot an error please contact webmaster (at) thcamra.org.ukLinks to external sites do not imply any official CAMRA endorsement of the opinions or ideas expressed therein, or guarantee the validity of the information provided. Links to commercial sites are in no way an endorsement of any vendor\'s products or services
Bootstrap is a front-end framework of Twitter, Inc. Code licensed under Apache License v2.0.
Font Awesome font licensed under SIL OFL 1.1.
