Chelmsford Against The Cuts | Campaign against spending cuts in Chelmsford
#0 (no title)
AXE THE BEDROOM TAX
PREVIOUS EVENTS
VIDEOS
WHAT’S ON
GET INVOLVED
Chelmsford Against The Cuts
Campaign against spending cuts in Chelmsford
Feeds:
Posts
Comments
HOME
The Chelmsford Against Cuts group was launched at a meeting organised by Chelmsford TUC on 22 September 2010.
We aim to bring together all working class people in Chelmsford and its outlying districts to fight against the spending cuts brought in by the coalition government.
If you are an activist, concerned resident, disaffected service user – anyone angered by and keen to fight the cuts – then please get in touch and help us to fight this unnecessary, ideological attack on our society.
It has been widely shown that the intended cuts will affect the least well-off and the vulnerable – certainly not those who made this crisis and got us into this mess.
It is time for us to rally and show that we are united and strong, and will not take such an attack on our lives lying down.
You might like to join the Chelmsford Against the Cuts Facebook Group
Share this:ShareEmailFacebook This page has the following sub pages.
Home
3 Comments »
3 Responses
on October 24, 2013 at 2:59 pm | Reply Your Local Chelmsford
Turning the street lights off has to be the most stupid idea ever. Chelmsford is a busy City at night with clubs etc and think of all the people working shifts and finishing at all different times through the night. Putting peoples safety at risk cannot be tolerated!
on October 24, 2013 at 5:03 pm | Reply Malcolm Wallace
To judge from the comments in the local press most people share your point of view.
on October 5, 2013 at 5:37 pm | Reply john boreham
well done for such a usefull website, something that is very importent to refer to for information to whats happening in the fight against the unecessary cuts locally and elsewhere, many thanks also to all those who hold the stall on saturday mornings in chelmsford,
john boreham
Comments RSS
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
USEFUL LINKS
Anti Academies Alliance
Chelmsford TUC
Coalition of Resistance
Colchester Against The Cuts
False Economy
Harlow Against The Cuts
Maldon Against Cuts
SERTUC
Southend Against The Cuts
The People's Assembly
The People's Charter
TUC Economic Analysis
TUC Economic Update
TUC Recession Report
TUC: Cuts will reduce women's income and widen gender gap.
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 30 other followers
Most recent posts
SAVE THE NHS
OUR LATEST VIDEO
IN A RIGHT STATE!
ESSEX PEOPLE’S ASSEMBLY
STARTING 2012 IN GREAT STYLE
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
WPThemes.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
