Fork 2 Fork
Personal tools
Log in
English
Cymraeg
Sections
Toggle navigation
Home
Trade
Fork2Fork TV
Recipes
Community
search
×
Fork2Fork
Keeping you informed of the benefits of buying fresh, direct and local food for you and your family. If you're interested in buying great local food, here you can learn about what’s going on as well as contribute your own stories, recipes and events:
Welcome to Fork2Fork!
Fork2Fork
Join the Fork2Fork community today to stay informed of the benefits of buying fresh, direct and local food for you and your family.
Wales celebrates its great tasting food and drink stars
Fork2Fork
| 02 Nov 2016
An extra reason to celebrate following the announcement that Wales will host next year’s Welsh round of Great Taste judging
Welsh food and drink businesses get set for Paris showcase
Fork2Fork
| 12 Oct 2016
Welsh food and drink companies are preparing to attend one of the world’s premier food exhibitions in Paris this month (16-20 October 2016). Salon International de l’Alimentation (SIAL) is a biennial fair and has developed into the food industry’s front-line event – the ultimate place to discover today’s food trends and explore tomorrow’s innovations.
Welsh companies embark on food and drink trade visit to Canada
Fork2Fork
| 28 Sep 2016
Fourteen leading Welsh food and drink companies are preparing their goods to be part of the first Welsh food and drink trade visit to ‘the land of the maple leaf’.
Wales gets ready for ‘Llamb’s Day’ as study shows consumers keen to eat local produce
Fork2Fork
| 02 Aug 2016
Research by Hybu Cig Cymru – Meat Promotion Wales (HCC) has showed that families are keen to eat food from local sources.
Royal Welsh Week continues to be the ‘real deal’
for the food and drink industry as £1.4m secured
Fork2Fork
| 20 Jul 2016
As the highlight of the agricultural calendar opens its doors this week, Food & Drink Wales has released figures demonstrating the event continues to be a crucial place for the industry when it comes to meeting retailers and sealing potentially lucrative deals.
Funding support for Welsh food and drink festivals
Fork2Fork
| 11 Jul 2016
Nine food and drink festivals across Wales, including the award-winning Cowbridge Food & Drink Festival, have received funding from the Welsh Government to help support their events and fortify Wales’ reputation as a producer of high quality food and drink products.
Welsh fishermen ‘schooled’ in Ireland
Fork2Fork
| 13 Jun 2016
Last month, leading Welsh seafood businesses journeyed across the Irish Sea with the aim of learning new ways to boost both their catch and their profits. Organised as part of the Welsh Government Seafood Cluster, the visit concentrated on innovative Irish fishing techniques and how they could be implemented in Wales.
Farmers to open their gates to Hay Festival visitors
Fork2Fork
| 23 May 2016
This year, Hay Festival-goers have been extended an invite to join local farmers on guided tours of their farms, and learn more about where and how food is produced.
Competition to find Wales’ Woman Farmer of the year
Fork2Fork
| 20 May 2016
NFU Cymru are striving to break down stereotypes with competition to raise the profile of female farmers.
St Dogmaels Market: the best in Britain
Fork2Fork
| 17 May 2016
St Dogmaels Market recently scooped a nationwide prize at prestigious awards ceremony.
Welsh companies to showcase seafood in Brussels
Fork2Fork
| 07 Apr 2016
At the end of April, six Welsh companies will travel to Belgium to showcase their seafood produce in Brussels to over 25,000 buyers and suppliers from all over the world.
Together standing tall: building food and drink links with Ireland
Fork2Fork
| 11 Mar 2016
Twenty Welsh food and drink producers have recently returned from a visit to Ireland, where they went to seek out new trading opportunities.
Two Welsh names shortlisted for BBC Food Awards
Fork2Fork
| 10 Mar 2016
A local produce market in Pembrokeshire and a Caerphilly cider maker have both been shortlisted for the BBC’s Food & Farming awards.
A Taste of Wales, in London
Fork2Fork
| 09 Mar 2016
Renowned Welsh chef Bryn Williams was the face of Welsh Food and Drink as he spearheaded the ‘Taste of Wales’ event in London on St David’s Day last week.
Potatoes and bacon
Fork2Fork |
23 Dec 2015
4
10
mins
30
mins
This dish has many descriptions varying from region to region. Some Northern regions call it ‘five minute potatoes’, in the West it may be called ‘roast potatoes and bacon’ and ‘the miser’s feast’ in other regions. This follows a slightly different method where the potatoes are cooked whole with layers of onion covered in water. Once the water is boiling bacon slices or a piece of ham are placed on top of the potatoes, covered with a lid and simmered until the potatoes are cooked when most of the water will be absorbed. The miser would eat the potatoes one day, mashed up in the liquid, keeping the bacon to be eaten the next day with plain boiled potatoes.
Roath Farmers Market
Fork2Fork
| 21 Dec 2015
With just 4 sleeps until Christmas, the onslaught of Christmas shoppers sweeping supermarkets for last minute supplies is imminent. So, if you’re already snowed under with last minute preparations, why not opt for a more relaxing experience to stock up your larder before the big day?
Small Business Saturday
Fork2Fork
| 04 Dec 2015
Where will you be shopping this winter?
With the highstreet bustling and everyone preparing early for Christmas, you can support small your local economy by shopping in small local businesses this season.
Saturday, December 5, 2015, is Small Business Saturday - a day to encourage all of us to spend our money locally.
Insightful online tool on the ins and outs of shopping locally
Fork2Fork
| 13 Nov 2015
"Shopping and cooking local undoubtedly takes a bit more thought and planning. Here are some of the reasons why it might be worth the additional effort."
BBC's iWonder's insightful online tool into shopping and cooking local produce; discussing the personal and economic benefits. Presented by Food Writer & Broadcaster Trish Deseine
Tips on buying and cooking seafood
Twitter
| 26 Oct 2015
Looking for tips on buying and cooking seafood? Check out these pages http://ow.ly/TLbLb pic.twitter.com/5c3F7CfMv1
Read more (Twitter)
Tweeted by
Fish is the Dish
fishisthedish
|
26 Oct 2015
Looking for tips on buying and cooking seafood? Check out these pages ow.ly/TLbLb pic.twitter.com/5c3F7CfMv1
Reply
Retweet
Favorite
6 tweets
Swansea breakfast
Fork2Fork |
23 Oct 2015
4
05
mins
15
mins
This recipe can be served as a light snack anytime of the day but serve on thick toast for a delicious and healthy breakfast! It combines local seafood from the Gower including Penclawdd cockles and laverbread, a type of seaweed which is collected along the coastline.
Next
20
items
»
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
...
10
Add recipes or news
Recipes
Fork2Fork TV
Sign-up for our news digest
Go
Contact
Privacy Policy
Terms and conditions
Made by FBA
