The Guild of Food Writers - the professional association of food writers and broadcasters in the UK.
Home
About
History
Aims, Objectives & Policy
President's Welcome
Guild's Code of Conduct
Committee Contacts
Sponsorship
Join
Benefits of Joining the Guild
How to Qualify for Membership
Membership Application Form
Events
Recent Events
Forthcoming Events
Members
Online Members Directory
Members' Books
Members' Websites and Blogs
Read
Directory of Members
Buy Access To Full Directory
Members' Recipes
Members' Recipes Archive
Guild 25th Anniversary Book
Events Reports
Copyright and Plagiarism
Metrication
Archive
Awards
Awards 2017
Awards 2016
Past Recipients
Take Part
Write It 2017
Cook It
Past Competition Winners
Links
Contact Us
Awards 2017 – Call for Entries
Write It 2017 – Call for Entries
Smartphone Photography Masterclass in Bristol:
Friday 24 February 2017
Spring Wines Workshop: Wednesday 15 March 2017
Wild Venison Workshop and Lunch in Suffolk: Tuesday 21 March 2017
Awards 2017 Call for Entries
Entries closed at midnight on Tuesday 14 Febraury 2017 for the 2017 Guild of Food Writers Awards sponsored by Tenderstem®. If you failed to submit your entry before the deadline please email awards@gfw.co.uk.
The Guild of Food Writers Awards were established in 1996 and are presented in recognition of outstanding achievements in food writing and broadcasting.
Full details are now available here and the Awards entry form can be completed online.
There are 12 main awards categories:
British Food Award
(Sponsored by Aspall)
Campaigning and Investigative Food Work Award
Cookery Book Award
Cookery Writing Award
(Sponsored by Gold Top)
First Book Award
Food and Travel Award
(Sponsored by Tebay Services and Gloucester Services)
Food Blog Award
(Sponsored by Satellite PR)
Food Book Award
(Sponsored by Lakeland)
Food Broadcast Award
(Sponsored by the Norwegian Seafood Council)
Food Magazine or Section Award
Food Writing Award
(Sponsored by SuperFast Thermapen®)
Restaurant Writing Award
(Sponsored by Food & Drink Devon)
The closing date for completing entry forms is Tuesday 14 February 2017 and all materials must be with the juries by Tuesday 28 February 2017.
The winning entry in each category will receive a prize of £500 and an engraved glass trophy. The winners of each Award will be announced at the Guild of Food Writers Awards ceremony on Thursday 22 June 2017 at The Oval Space in Bethnal Green.
Photographer Idil Sukan for Draw HQ
The winning entry in each category will receive a prize of £500 and an engraved glass trophy. The winners of each Award will be announced at the Guild of Food Writers Awards ceremony on Wednesday 22 June 2016 at Opera Holland Park.
Full details of how to enter are available here and the Awards entry form can be completed online.
Write It 2017 Call for Entries
Calling all keen writers, 18 and under. In partnership with Pink Lady® we’re looking for young wordsmiths to take part in this fabulous, food-based writing competition.
All you’ll need to do is whip up your best 250, 500 or 750 words (depending on your age) on 'The Perfect Food Partnership’, and upload them right here. Check out the judges, the prizes and all the details here.
The competition opens on Friday 3 February 2017 and closes on Sunday 30 April 2017. Winners will be notified by the end of June. Good luck!
To find out more and to enter please click here.
Next Workshop: Smartphone Photography Masterclass in Bristol
Smarter food pictures with your smartphone
Friday 24 February 2017, 10.30am - 2.30pm
19 First Avenue, Bristol BS4 4DU
Taking great photos is an ever-more essential part of any food writer’s repertoire, and smartphone technology has made it easier than ever to record what we cook and eat. This masterclass is designed to help us create beautiful images that will stand out on whatever platforms we choose to publish our pictures, even when light conditions are challenging and time is short.
The workshop will be led by Guild member Genevieve Taylor (www.genevievetaylor.co.uk), food writer and stylist, and Rob Wicks (eatpictures.com), a photographer and film maker who specialises in food and drink.
Find out more here.
FEATURED MEMBERS' PUBLICATIONS
In the Mood for Healthy Food
by Jo Pratt
£
More Books
MEMBERS' AREA
Email:
Password:
Terms & Conditions
