Gwesty'r Marine Hotel - Aberystwyth Hotel with Sea Views
01970 612 444info@gwestymarinehotel.co.uk
Home
Accommodation
Hotel Rooms
Apartments
Cottages
Dining
Weddings
Conferences
Occasions
Gallery
Offers & Events
Things to do
Contact
×
Menu
Cymraeg
Book Now
Book Now
Book Now
Book Now
Book Now
Dining
Weddings
Accommodation
You haven't experienced 'Aber' if you haven't been to the 'Marine'
Located on the picturesque promenade of Aberystwyth, the Marine Hotel has opened it's door under the same Family for over 30 years, we are now welcoming the grand-children to the running of the hotel!  We are very fortunate to be located close enough to the town centre but away from the hustle and bustle of town life.
A visit to Aberystwyth wouldn't be complete without a visit to the Marine Hotel.  It's an iconic hotel that has hosted generations of students and parents, holiday makers, business travellers, conferences, weddings and parties - if only the walls could talk!!!  So when you visit Aberystwyth - make sure you come and stay with us for an unforgettable night and unique view of the Pier and Prom as the sunsets on Cardigan Bay.  If not call on a Sunday to enjoy the unrivalled Sunday Carvery or just pop in for a coffee or a meal before you go and 'kick the bar' at the end of the Prom.
Comfortable sea-view en-suite rooms
The Marine is an ideal place to stay while exploring this beautiful part of Mid Wales and what better way to enjoy the amazing sunsets over Cardigan Bay than in one of our many comfortable sea view en-suite bedrooms.
Your Wedding
Take advantage of our 30 year's experience hosting Weddings from the small and intimate to large and extravagant and everything in between!!
Book an appointment to come and see for yourself why we host so many weddings and we can discuss how we can make your day unique - we can look after your guest, so you can enjoy your special day.
Free WiFi available.
Disabled lift on site.
Pet friendly.
Parking Available.
Conferences
Christmas
Sunday Carvery
Gift Vouchers
Free Parking
At the rear of Hotel
All signposted Marine Hotel
Contact us
Feel free to get in touch
Tel: 01970 612444
Email: info@gwestymarinehotel.co.uk
Gwesty'r Marine Hotel,
Marine Terrace,
Aberystwyth,
Ceredigion,
SY23 2DA
“Great location by sea front. Big bed and room. Good buffet breakfast.”
Loretta - December 2016
“Excellent stay along the front. highly recommend.”
Gavin - October 2016
“Perfect for a short break.”
Katy - December 2016
“Lovely location, nice rooms, friendly staff”
Jeffrey - October 2016
Design & Hosted by GloverSure Ltd.
©
Copyright 2016 Marine Hotel
