Stilton Cheese - Welcome to the home of Stilton Cheese - Britain's historic blue cheese and Britain's favourite blue cheese.
Skip to main content
home
contact
members
SEARCH:
The Stilton Producers
Making Stilton
History of Stilton
Using Stilton
Recipes
Stilton Facts
Blog & News
Retailers
Useful Links
Recipe of the week...Potted Christmas StiltonThe holidays bring back memories of warm gatherings and delicious food. A Potted Christmas Stilton is an easy-to-prepare and classic way to celebrate the... (more)
Welcome to the home of Stilton Cheese - Britain's historic blue cheese and Britain's favourite blue cheese.
The history of Stilton can be traced back to the early 18th century and although it is clear that the recipe used has changed quite dramatically over the years it remains one of the world's best known and much loved cheeses.
Quintessentially English, Stilton has its own Certification Trade Mark and is an EU Protected Food Name.
This means that:- it can only be produced in the three Counties of Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and Leicestershire- it must be made from locally produced milk that has been pasteurised before use- it can only be made in a cylindrical shape- it must be allowed to form its own coat or crust- it must never be pressed and - it must have the magical blue veins radiating from the centre of the cheese
Stilton's unique flavour makes it suitable not only for those special occasions when only the best will do , but also but for perking up everyday recipes and snacks. With its slightly open texture and creamy background it melts and crumbles easily and is one of the few cheeses that freezes well.
We invite you to explore our web site, watch the film to see how Stilton is made or find new ways of using Stilton. But above all we want you to enjoy your Stilton.
Stilton - King of English Cheese!
Stilton Videos:
Stilton History (6:04)
Making Stilton (9:35)
Cooking with Stilton (1:52)
Cutting, Packing and Storing (8:08)
Stilton is only made in three Counties in England...
Click on the map to find out more.
The History of Stilton Cheese Click here to order the book from Amazon.
Copyright © 2017 Stilton Cheesemakers' Association, all rights reserved   |   Web design by Iconography Ltd   |   Sitemap
