Bruce Lawson’s
personal site
: London terrorist attacks
Bruce Lawson’s
personal site
Search this site
skip to main content
Home
music
about
photos
writing
email
Buy my book!
Introducing HTML5 by Bruce Lawson and Remy Sharp
Buy (USA)
Buy (UK)
Hear me rant!
See my conferences on Lanyrd
Site Lowlights:
Geocities 1996 - my CSS
Zen Garden design
Notes
on Web Accessibility
Bruce's Top Tens - lists
of loves.
The Spam Letters
Letters found on Kazaa
My
Amazon wishlist
Categories
accessibility
web standards (456)
ARIA (15)
art and culture (97)
call to arms (12)
Cambodia (7)
CSS3 (27)
current events (73)
DAP (4)
DTI complaint (7)
ephemera (156)
Friday joke (40)
geek songs (4)
general geek (56)
HTML5 (152)
India (10)
Indonesia (9)
lists (19)
making of (5)
microformats (5)
mobile (45)
motivational (1)
Multiple Sclerosis (17)
music (5)
my music (29)
Opera (85)
personal, friends and family (169)
photos (1)
poetry (4)
poetry (4)
questions (1)
Rants
complaints (43)
reading list (164)
recipes (1)
reviews (35)
semantics (23)
Snakeoil salesman (10)
Speaking (19)
SVG (3)
terrorism (14)
Thailand (15)
traveller's tales (60)
Turkey (2)
Uncategorized (6)
usability atrocities (9)
WaSP ATF (22)
WTF? (13)
Pages
about Bruce
Archive
Contact Bruce
HTML5 WordPress theme
photos
Reviews
Test pages
Whatever happened to
writing
Accessibility and Privacy policies
Spam letters
Letters found on
Kazaa
Recent Comments:
saat hamil: sure
saat hamil: Clearly The plugin is not for everyone
Bjarni Wark: If you need a recommendation for undertaking the teaching of the Buddhas, try these bad boys out, 10...
zinsen berechnen investition: Well done article that. I’ll make sure to use it wisely.
http://www.exemcor.com/: My tenant is living in my property for over 3-months now. He has paid rent on time so far...
http://www.loboheights.com/: Hi,ich werde mir bestimmt auch die neue Version 3.0 instalÂ­lieÂ­ren und dies sowie...
Thomas: Hello, Today is the first of January 2017, I woke up today thinking about Buck, I don’t know how why,...
Andrew Rabon: Release Notes for Safari Technology Preview 19 – HTML Form Validation, IDB fixes and more Also...
Joris von Loghausen: It always was a great pleasure to hear you talk on and around the stage, and I wish you nothing...
Constantine: 🙁 Presto, Dragonfly, DevRel… Less and less of old Opera is left. Good luck in your future...
Blah blah
Web Hosting by NSDesign.
Proudly powered by WordPress.
Entries (RSS) and Comments
(RSS).
London terrorist attacks
Thursday 7 July 2005
(11 a.m. ) It had to happen, and now it’s happened.
Let’s realise now that this isn’t about Islam. Al Queda are murderous fuckers who worship nothing but death, and they bear as much resemblance to the muslims I know as the IRA do to the teachers at my daughter’s catholic school.
News reports still coming in. Colleagues in our London office are told not to close the windows and leave the building (secondary devices, I guess).
When the mess is cleared and
the dead people are counted, their loved ones consoled and their children comforted, let’s round up everyone who believes their religion requires or allows them to murder – whether they be Jews, Christians, Moslems, Sikhs or Hindus – and hang them all.
Civilisation can’t progress until that happens.
8p.m. An unbelievably small number dead. All friends and family accounted for. (My friends and family. In a couple of hundred homes in the UK tonight, there will be awful, unimaginable grief). Wierdly, I’m utterly stressed out, even though I no longer live in London.
Here’s a couple of great pieces of writing that shows why bombing London didn’t work for the Nazis, the IRA and it won’t work now:
The Mayor’s speech before leaving Singapore this afternoon:
I want to say one thing specifically to the world today. This was not a terrorist attack against the mighty and the powerful. It was not aimed at Presidents or Prime Ministers. It was aimed at ordinary, working-class Londoners, black and white, Muslim and Christian, Hindu and Jew, young and old. It was an indiscriminate attempt to slaughter, irrespective of any considerations for age, for class, for religion, or whatever
… Nothing you do, however many of us you kill, will stop… our city, where freedom is strong and where people can live in harmony with one another. Whatever you do, however many you kill, you will fail.
And A Letter To The Terrorists, From London:
We’re London, and we’ve got our own way of doing things, and it doesn’t involve tossing bombs around where innocent people are going about their lives.
And that’s because we’re better than you. Everyone is better than you. Our city works. We rather like it. And we’re going to go about our lives. We’re going to take care of the lives you ruined. And then we’re going to work. And we’re going down the pub.
So you can pack up your bombs, put them in your arseholes, and get the fuck out of our city.
Added 7 July 2015: because someone got grumpy when I tweeted a link to this on the 10th anniversary, let me be clear: I don’t really believe in hanging people. I was angry, writing the above as it was happening.
Posted in
current events, terrorism
.
Follow comments via
RSS feed. Comment.
Previously: My big Friday night
Next: Semantics, Standards, Accessibility …
6 Responses
to “
London terrorist attacks
”
Comment by
Allan
July 7th, 2005
at
12:09 pm
good to see you’re ok mate
Comment by
Paul Boag
July 7th, 2005
at
3:41 pm
What has amazed me is how slick the emergency services have been. It has been incredibly efficiently dealt with. You can tell we are a country that is used to terrorist attacks over the years. Honestly, what do they think will be achieved? The news said it was designed to create an element of fear. They obviously have no concept of the British if they think that will work. We are a country with an ingrained Blitz mentality not to mention 30 years of terrorist threat from the IRA and the like.
Comment by
cyphertube.com
July 7th, 2005
at
8:28 pm
London explosions
My heart goes out to the people of London today. This is rather tragic.
I’m still waiting to see why this occurred, but if it is, indeed, simply in response to the G8 happening today. It’s horrible.
(Updated: Good to see Bruce Lawson is …
Comment by
Pip
July 8th, 2005
at
2:42 am
“My imaginary friend is better than your imaginary freind and to prove it I will try and kill you all” Religious extremists eh?
Fuck the lot of ’em.
Glad you are all OK – tons of love, as always.
Comment by
Shez
July 8th, 2005
at
6:39 pm
Glad to hear your dad’s OK – I thought of him straight away when I heard about the attack on London. We suffered the Nazis in WWII and these arseholes are just Nazis of a different kind and like Blair (correctly, for a change) states, our way of life, in all its variety, for all its faults and its wonders, will still be here long after the extremists are gone and forgotten.
Peace to you all.
Comment by
buddah
April 2nd, 2006
at
10:21 pm
all of they should learn that all faith. in anyone else.other than ones self is counter productive..
Leave a Reply
Name
(required)
email (will not be published - privacy
policy)
(required)
Website
HTML: You can use these tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong> . To display code, manually escape it.
Enter comment
Bruce Lawson’s
personal site
is copyright © Bruce Lawson 2003-2017. Much (but not all)
is available under a creative
commons license that allows non-commercial attributed distribution. It's polite to ask me first, though.
I work for Opera, but all opinions contained herein are mine
(and are thus incontrovertibly
correct) and do not represent the opinions of
my employers. (Comments are copyright their authors, not written by me, and
are therefore probably the ramblings of mad people.)
