Samaritans |
DonateContact
Samaritans
Courtesy nav B
Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Central office
Search form
Search
I found a way to be myself
Talk to us anytime you like, in your own way and off the record - about whatever's getting to you.
Find out more about how we can help:
We're here round the clock
We keep everything confidential
We're not a religious organisation
Contact us
Share your story
Share your story
Have you used our service? Help us demonstrate that difficult times don't last forever by sharing your story.
Share your story
Local Action Saves Lives
Every 90 minutes, someone in the UK or Ireland dies by suicide. We can change this.
Take action. Save lives.
Local Action Saves Lives
Volunteer
So many people have it in them to be a Samaritans volunteer.
To touch another person’s life when it really matters, by helping them directly, or by keeping our branches running, is a rare gift.
Volunteer for us
News from the NSPA conference
If we act now we can make a real and lasting difference to suicide prevention, said Samaritans CEO Ruth Sutherland at the NSPA Conference.
Channel 4 shows Samaritans' custody support
See Channel 4 News feature on Samaritans​ volunteers in Wales offering support to those in police custody.
Tribute to Archers actress and Samaritans volunteer
Samaritans volunteers have been paying tribute to Archers actor and fellow volunteer Sara Coward.
Latest charity news and events
Did you know Samaritans' staff training provides employees with self-awareness and skills to strengthen their personal resilience?
If we act now we can make a real and lasting difference to suicide prevention
The sooner the better - help children and young people manage emotional wellbeing
Let’s mobilise the power of the public to help reduce suicide, Samaritans CEO tells MPs
Stay in touch
Subscribe to our newsletter:
Your email address
Follow us on our social media channels:
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Google+
Linkedin
Find your local Samaritans branch
Personal experiences
Read our callers' stories - why they contacted Samaritans and how we helped them.
Workplace training
Offering a range of communication and employee wellbeing courses
Samaritans Media Guidelines
Support for anyone reporting suicide
Menu
Main menuHow we can help you
In your community
Volunteer with us
Support us
For business
Samaritans’ policy and influencing work
About us
Our branches
Media centre
News
Jobs
Accessibility
Legal
Privacy statement
Feedback
People talk to us anytime they like, in their own way - about whatever’s getting to them.
You don't have to be suicidal.
Patron: HRH The Prince of Wales. Founded in 1953 by the late Prebendary Dr Chad Varah CH CBE.
Samaritans is a charity registered in England and Wales (219432) and in Scotland (SC040604) and incorporated in England and Wales as a company limited by guarantee (757372). Samaritans Ireland is a charity registered in the Republic of Ireland (20033668) and incorporated in the Republic of Ireland as a company limited by guarantee (450409). Samaritans in Scotland is a charity registered in Scotland (SC009843) and incorporated as a Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation.
© Samaritans 2017
