Police.uk
Skip to main content
Police.uk
Find your neighbourhood
Share this page
Menu
Crime and policing in England, Wales and Northern Ireland
Find your neighbourhood
Latest news
Dating Fraud Partnership publishes advice to help people looking for love beat fraudsters
13 February 2017
More and more couples meet online or via dating apps – however, cyber criminals often use these channels to target vulnerable people for financial gain. With Valentine’s Day just around the corner, the Dating Fraud Partnership has published new advice to help people looking for love avoid becoming a victim of online fraudsters.
Read the full article
Recent news
Police action to tackle mobile phone use by drivers
New Year, New You. Cyber Health - be Cyber Aware this January
Party safe this Christmas
See all news articles
Contact the police
Find details of how to contact the police in emergency or non-emergency situations.
Crime map
Explore and compare crime and outcomes of crime in your neighbourhood.
Performance
See how your force is performing and how its performance compares to other areas.
Police workforce diversity
Details of how the ethnicity and gender of the police workforce in your force compares with that of the population of the area they serve.
Your neighbourhood
Discover more information about your area and the team responsible for policing it.
Your police and crime commissioner
Find out about your force's police and crime commissioner, and details of how you can contact them.
Information & advice
Practical information about reporting incidents, how the police work, and how to help cut crime.
Crime prevention advice
Find out how to help reduce crime and avoid becoming a victim of crime.
TrackMyCrime
You can track your case with TrackMyCrime if you are a victim of crime in an area that offers the service and already have a TrackMyCrime account.
Apps and websites
Browse third-party apps which use the data powering this website.
Community Payback
Learn about Community Payback schemes and nominate a project in your local area.
Postcode or place name
Search
Use current location
Share this page
This is a permanent link that you can copy and paste into emails or social media messages.
http://www.police.uk/
Facebook
Google+
StumbleUpon
Twitter
Copy URL
Press Ctrl+C to copy
Email
Help
Information & advice
Contact the police
List of UK police forces
Police.uk data
Apps
Use the data
Language
About
Feedback
Accessibility
Cookies
Site map
Back to top
Cookies
Powered by data.police.uk
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 unless otherwise stated
