Blanche Parry
Home
Blanche Parry & Queen Elizabeth I book with superb pictures
Blanche’s Biography
Biography
Book Launch
Press Reviews
Additional Research
Epitaph
Further Evidence
Papers ...
Queen Elizabeth I
Lady Troy - Queen Elizabeth I’s Lady Mistress
Bacton Church Guide
Dore Archive
People & Places
Interactive Guide
Guide Notes for Dore Abbey
Dore Articles
Talks & Articles
Ruth’s Talks
Ruth’s Book Reviews
Tracing Welsh Ancestors
Icomb & Lady Troy
King Richard III
Who Killed Richard III?
Ruth’s Research
Field-Names
‘Iron Age Hillforts and Roman Sites in Herefordshire’
‘Medieval Plays - The Early History of Drama’
‘Herefordshire Past and Present - An Aerial View’by Ruth E. Richardson & Chris Musson
‘A Definitive History of Dore Abbey’edited by Ron Shoesmith & Ruth E. Richardson
Ruth Out & About - past & present
Places To Visit
Rev. Dennis Monger
In memory of the Reverend Dennis Monger, who sadly passed away in March 2013, a set of articles and
pictures have been posted to this site remembering his life and many accomplishments. He loved
ministering at many of the churches in and around Herefordshire, including Bacton and Dore Abbey.
He will be sorely missed.
A biography of Reverend Monger&apos;s life
Pictures of Reverend Monger
Extract of an address given by Reverend Monger in 2008
Gallery
Looking at Landscape & its Archaeology
Links
Contact
NEW ... We know from your comments that our
website is increasingly valued for research and by everyone who wants to know the Truth about
QUEEN ELIZABETH I, LADY TROY, and BLANCHE and about the times in which they lived. Our
research is accurate and referenced.
You can also find out about Herefordshire and the surrounding areas ... including:
Ruth OUT & ABOUT past & present
– Here you can discover fascinating facts about people in Herefordshire and the surrounding
areas and you can often visit the places mentioned. More stories are regularly added.
Places to Visit – a collection of related and interesting places
to visit in the Golden Valley and the surrounding area.
Thank you for visiting us. We are always glad to hear from you . Best Wishes, Ruth E. Richardson.
Blanche Parry accompanied her aunt, Lady Troy, to the Tudor Royal Court. King Henry VIII appointed Lady Troy as Guardian / Lady Mistress to his children, Princess Elizabeth and Prince Edward; she supervised Princess Mary when she lived with them.
Blanche, close to Queen Elizabeth I for 56 years, was pre-eminent at the centre of the Elizabethan Court. Lord Burghley was her friend and cousin.
‘Mistress Blanche, Queen Elizabeth I’s Confidante’, the first Biography of
Blanche Parry, and of Lady Troy, was published for the 500th anniversary of Blanche's birth. Copies available, from
time–to–time, on: amazon.co.uk.
Otherwise, the text, without illustrations, can be obtained from www.lulu.com –
the link is here.
Beautiful, superb quality, pictures, with text, based on this book are available in ‘Blanche Parry & Queen Elizabeth I’.
To augment both books, this website is hosting additional research, including:
Further Evidence for Blanche’s Rôle;
Papers.
The Epitaph was composed by Blanche herself for her monument in Bacton Church, Herefordshire. The Bacton Monument is now securely dated to before November 1578 and so is the earliest known depiction of Queen Elizabeth I as an icon, as Gloriana. This is, therefore, nationally important. Compare with Blanche's St. Margaret's Epitaph in St. Margaret's Church, Westminster (see Biography page 136).
The Papers page includes:
Lady Troy & Blanche Parry (Society for Renaissance Studies);
Blanche’s Yorkshire Tenants / Fieldnames from documents;
9 Welsh Bardic Poems relevant to Blanche's family & notes;
Parry Lands with glossary;
Harri Ddu ap Gruffudd's cupboard panel.
If you have additional research that is accurate, referenced & relevant it may be
considered for inclusion under your name - please contact the webmaster. Thank you.
blanche parry 2015
Copyright: (All text and photos) R.E. & T.G. Richardson 2015
