The Castle of Mey | The Queen Mother's Home in Caithness
THE QUEEN MOTHER'S HOME IN CAITHNESS – HER LASTING LEGACY TO THE COUNTY
Welcome
The History of the Castle of Mey
Visiting the Castle of Mey
The Gardens
Visitor Information
Weddings
Recipe Book
News
Events
The Castle of Mey Trust
Longoe Farm
Friends and Patrons
Holiday Lets
Contact Us
Links
01847 851473
Welcome To The Castle and Gardens of Mey
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother first
saw what was then Barrogill Castle in 1952, while mourning the death of her husband, King George VI.
Falling for its isolated charm and hearing it was to be abandoned, she decided to save it.
Having acquired the most northerly inhabited castle on the British mainland, The Queen Mother renovated and restored
it and created the beautiful gardens you see today. For almost half a century she spent many happy summers here and
shorter visits at other times of the year.
The Castle and Gardens of Mey have held Visit Scotland's highest award of a 5 Star quality assurance grading every year since their first unannounced visit in
2007. Their annual assessments include all aspects of the castle, gardens, animal centre, gift shop and tearoom. This is a great accolade for the castle and visitor centre, and well-earned
recognition for all the hard work and enthusiasm of the staff.
We hope that you too will enjoy your visit to The Castle and Gardens of Mey, including the visitor centre and animal
centre.
Some dates for your diary ...
Easter Weekend
Friday 14th April - Monday 17th April
VisitScotland Expo
26th - 27th April 2017
Mey 10K race
28 May 2017
Latest news ...
The North Highland Cancer Information and Support
End of Year Highlights
Green Tourism Gold Award
Please visit our events, news and visitor information pages
for our full list of events, more news items and the latest visitor information.
The Castle of Mey
ThursoCaithnessScotlandKW14 8XH
The Queen Elizabeth Castle of Mey Trust © 2008 - 2017
registered as a Scottish Charity (No SC024983)
web programming © Scottish Web Design
Website Policy Statement
Sunday 19 February 2017
