Home | Commonwealth Foundation
Commonwealth Foundation
Skip to Navigation ↓
Menu
About
Grants
Programmes
Knowledge Hub
Find
Search form
Find
Close
Signup
Commonwealth Foundation Strategic Plan 2017-21The Commonwealth Foundation’s Strategic Plan for the period 2017-2021 was approved last December by its governments. The plan is now available for download.Read more
Commonwealth Insights: Resilience SeriesThe Commonwealth Foundation presents nine papers on the theme of Governance for Resilience, which are available for download now. CPF 2015 critically explored policy based actions under the theme of “What Makes Resilient Societies?”Read more
Southern African Alliance for Youth Employment (SAAYE)SAAYE’s vision is a Southern Africa where young people have access to gainful and productive employment that enables them and their communities to be lifted out of poverty.Read more
The Foundation’s Network Effectiveness Framework: What’s it all about?This new tool outlines a process that enables Foundation partners to assess their own progress as a network and identify where improvements could be made for increased impact. Gillian Cooper explains when and how to use it.Read more
We are the Commonwealth agency for civil society. Funded by member states, we aim to strengthen civic voices and enhance participatory governance
Our Work
Grants Programme
Staff
Commonwealth Writers
Knowledge Hub
Features
Commonwealth Writers
Commonwealth Writers is the cultural initiative of the Commonwealth Foundation. It inspires, develops and connects writers and storytellers in a range of disciplines.  find out more...
Commonwealth People’s Forum
The CPF brings together civil society representatives from around the world to discuss and debate key issues facing Commonwealth people.  find out more...
Publications
Browse a library of publications from our knowledge hub, including policy briefs written in collaboration with civil society partners, toolkits, guides and more.
find out more...
Awarded Grants Map
View the Commonwealth Foundation's Grants footprint in this interactive map.
find out more...
Commonwealth Foundation
Marlborough House
Pall Mall
London
SW1Y 5HY
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7930 3783
Fax: +44 (0)20 7839 8157
Email: foundation@commonwealth.int
51.505147
-0.135987
ConnectTwitter
Facebook
YouTube
Flickr
InformationSitemap
Terms and conditions
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Fraud alert
Brand guidelines
Quick LinksWorking for Us
Staff
Contact Us
Press Centre
