Crown jewel: Why the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee is right for brands - Cream Blog
The
network:
Cream
M&M
The Festival of Media
home
case study library
reports
opinion
shop
about us
Home
Blog
Crown jewel: Why the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee is right for brands
More from us
Search
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
Listed on
« Video of the Week: Sunshine
|
Main
| The new era of emotive advertising »
10 May 2012
Crown jewel: Why the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee is right for brands
By Ian Priestman
She’s on every postage stamp, yet her 60-year celebration appears to be being ignored by brands. Blackjack Promotions’ Ian Priestman explains why they could be making a big mistake…
This is arguably the best year in the UK ever for brand marketing opportunities. The London 2012 Games will create a festival-like atmosphere across the UK, deliver huge gatherings of people high on the Olympic spirit and ripe for engagement, and present lots of potential touch points. Meanwhile, there’s also the excitement of the UEFA European Football Championship, which although taking place on the continent, gives brands excellent scope to create bespoke events around England’s – and don’t forget Ireland’s – matches.
There’s also the not-so-insignificant matter of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee. Yet it seems to have slipped off many brands’ radars. We see her iconic profile on every stamp on every letter we post, and it’s certainly no mean feat spending 60 years on any throne – even if it is in one of the more monarchy-friendly countries in the world. But this momentous cultural event has been completely overshadowed by the Olympic buzz and Euros fever. This is probably because the two sporting spectaculars are seen as ‘cooler’ events for brands to be associated with. Also, the promotional opportunities are more obvious.
Unfortunately, that means there will probably be a brand marketing cacophony unlike any heard before, as the scrum for promotional oxygen makes it a real challenge to stand out. In contrast, the Jubilee offers brands the chance to make much more of an impact. The problem is that many seem unsure of how to approach it.
Celebrating HRH’s 60 years on the throne seems more about Britishness, street parties and local culture than brands. However, it potentially provides the perfect opportunity for brands to really engage with communities at a grass roots level. In fact, the Jubilee gives home-grown businesses a chance to show off their British credentials without fear of being considered politically incorrect or jingoistic. What’s more, it presents great opportunities to bolster a brand’s corporate social responsibility credentials through some careful social marketing that could stay long in the memory of the communities it touches, while filling stakeholders and staff with pride. The results can be prominently displayed on a brand’s website and be spread far and wide through social media to show just how much it has given back to its local community.
The right approach to take is think local, deliver global. It’s a strategy that can also be very economical. For example, a brand could sponsor the street parties in its area, perhaps adding to the fun by contributing entertainers and free samples. Or put on a special Jubilee event for local people. This could then be filmed and amplified over the internet, so what happens on a local community scale is being spread worldwide.
Plus, of course, your employees – and even clients – can get involved and hold their own party, so you’re also winning on the loyalty stakes.
With marketing these days being very much about adding the personal touch, brands should consider backing up their activities with targeted direct mail campaigns. Mailing out individual branded invitations to your local community, saving local organisers the time, trouble and expense can make a big impact. Mailing out similar invitations to all your clients and staff and holding a major Jubilee company bash for them, too is also a great way of strengthening the bond with your most important assets.
So the possibilities for promotional activity around the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee really are endless. Now, if diamond is 60 years, what’s 70…?
Ian Priestman is project director at Blackjack promotions
Posted by Mark St Andrew at 10:06:11
in Opportunistic, Right Brain: creativity, innovation, ideas
TrackBack
TrackBack URL for this entry:http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00e5506f08e888340163056e9a5e970d
Listed below are links to weblogs that reference Crown jewel: Why the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee is right for brands:
Comments
You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the comment feed for this post.
The comments to this entry are closed.
About this blog
Right Brain, Left Brain sums up the dichotomy of a media business that’s constantly battling with the challenge of delivering a profit and discovering new ways to communicate to consumers. The Cream editorial team combined with a dream team of industry pioneers from around the world share their expert opinions.
Find us on...
@creamhq
Links
Contact Us
Follow Cream on Twitter
The Festival of Media
Subscribe to this blog's feed
Authors
Achara Masoodi
Brett Booth
Elliot Polak
Giles Fitzgerald
James Davies
Nico Holmes
Richard Prenderville
Russell Buckley
Tom Denford
Categories
Advertiser as service
Art
Awards
Branded content
Business innovation
Campaign of the week
Case study
Channel Development
Cream in Focus
CSR
Culture Shocks
Ecommerce
Event
Experiential
Fail
Fashion marketing
Festival of Media
Gaming
Guerilla tactics
Infographic
Insight
Interview
Left Brain: knowledge, trends, deals
Luxury marketing
Mobile
Music
Native
News
Online
OOH innovation
Opportunistic
Print
Product design
product launch
Reputation management
Retail innovation
Right Brain: creativity, innovation, ideas
Social media
Sponsorship
Sport
Storytelling
Sustainability
TV
Twitter
Video
World tour
Youth culture
Youth marketing
Photo Albums
Festival of Media party London
We love ''No Apples"
Blogs we like:
ADivertido
Adrants
Adverblog
Advertising Ape
Advertising Lab
Agency Spy
Campaign brief
CitizenSound
Copyranter
Digital examples
Fallon Planning
Fresh creation
I believe in advertising
Invisible Red
M&M; Blog
Mastercom
MediaPost’s Media Creativity
Mike Arauz
MindTonic
Mobhappy
nickburcher.com
On Demand
Textappeal blog
The Coolhunter
The Experience Manifesto
The Open Consultancy
This is Swordfish
Trendwatch 2.1
Cream Global
– Home
– Case Study Library
– Reports
– Opinion
– About Us
Help and Information
– About us
– Contact us
– Terms
– Trial Terms
– Partners
– Privacy & Cookies
Cream Subscribers
– My account
– Lost password
Other C Squared Products
– M&M Global
– The Festival of Media
© C Squared Holdings Ltd.
115 Southwark Bridge Rd,London, SE1 0AX.
Registered Number: 5272863VAT REG NO: GB127 6174 12
Made with Fantastic Thinking
