FaceBritain Kids
Welcome to Face Britain, a national project that invited all young people in the UK to submit a self portrait. Over 200 000 artworks were part of a world record attempt and hopefully the biggest online gallery of self portraits in the world. Make your face famous!
Over 200 000 self portraits were submitted to Face Britain.
These were projected onto Buckingham Palace in a unique image of HM The Queen.
We hope this will break the Guinness World Records attempt for ‘most artists working on the same art installation'. Watch this space!
Thank you for taking part!
About
|
Enter
|
Get Involved
|
Resources
|
Create a Portrait
|
Famous Faces
|
Supporters
|
What Happens
|
Gallery
© 2011 Face Britain Registered UK Charity No 1103747
Submissions for Face Britain have now closed.
You can have a look at the gallery to see all the pictures that were entered.
Even though Face Britain has now closed to new entries, you can still create a self portrait online, at home or in class. Think about how you want to be seen and which materials you will use to create your own portrait. Be creative!
Resources
What is a Self Portrait?
Where to Start
Different Styles
Techniques and Materials
We have a number of helpful tips, ideas and suggestions to help you when creating a self portrait for any project. Click the links above to find out more...
Create A Portrait
Use the tools below to draw your picture in the frame.
Once you’re happy you can email your portrait to your teacher to add to your class’s online portfolio.
Artists' Toolbox
Enter your name and teachers email address.
Your browser does not support this feature, please upgrade your browser then come back.
Previous 8
Showing: 1 - 8 of 38
Next 8
Here's some of the famous faces giving their support to Face Britain
Adele
Ade Adepitan
Andy Akinwolere
Ross Ashton
Tim Bentinck
Cilla Black OBE
Quentin Blake
Derren Brown
Neil Buchanan
Fearne Cotton
Angela de la Cruz
Karen David
Dennis and Gnasher (stars of The Beano)
Jonathan Edwards
Tracy Emin
Bryan Ferry CBE
Sir Ranulph Fiennes OBE
Richard E Grant
Baroness Tanni Grey-Thompson DBE
Sir Geoff Hurst MBE
Jeremy Irons
Felicity Kendal CBE
Nick Mason
Michael Morpurgo OBE
James Naughtie
Jamie Oliver MBE
Emily Patrick
Dame Mary Peters DBE
Rankin
Sir Cliff Richard OBE
Alan Rickman
Daniel Roche
Gerald Scarfe
Sir Paul Smith CBE
Eleanor Updale
Daisy de Villeneuve
Justin de Villenueve
Stephen Webster
B&Q;
Headline Sponsors
"We’re
delighted to be the headline sponsors of such a wonderful project.  We here at B&Q are extremely proud of our work with
young people. Learning practical skills and realising you have the ability to
complete a hands-on project for yourself is a great confidence boost and is
transferable to all aspects of life. It is also a way to show young people who
are less suited to a traditional, academic approach that they can achieve in
other areas. This is why Face Britain is something that really excites
us; it’s great to be part of a project that’s championing the power of the arts
to help transform children’s lives and is fantastic to see how many young
people have got involved. We look forward to seeing how the project progresses
and will be supporting every step of the way."
Jacqueline Caston, Director of Reputation and Activation, B&Q
Photobox
Europe's leading online photo service for prints, photo books and giftsPhotoBox is as passionate about your photos as you are. That’s why over 11 million members trust us with their photos. So when The Prince’s Foundation for Children & the Arts approached us about Face Britain we leapt at the chance.With our award-winning digital photo printing, personalised gifts and photo sharing expertise we built a site especially for Face Britain. Our aim is to help teachers and parents develop kids’ creativity through a passion for their photos & drawings and take pride in sharing them through this very special event.We also welcome you to join PhotoBox free and get 40 free photo prints plus unlimited photo storage and sharing. Make the most of your photos today! Join us at www.photobox.co.uk
Overthrow Digital
Overthrow Digital deliver sensational online experiences utilising creative thinking, relevant technology and targeted, well planned strategies to help build your brand.We have extensive experience in designing and building beautiful, usable and effective websites created to inspire, inform and effectively communicate your message to your audience.We are proud to be supporting Face Britain and are very excited to have had the chance to use our skills to help inspire children to participate in such a great project and partake in creative activities. It has also been a great opportunity to use our online experience and knowledge to advise and assist in developing an engaging website with useful and relevant technology and to help the project's growth. www.overthrowdigital.com
The Partners
The Partners have kindly donated graphic design services to support Face Britain. The Partners are proud to be involved with such a worthwhile cause, working with a team of amazing, energetic and committed people. We’re proud to work on a project that has the potential to reach out to millions of children across the nation.And we’re proud to be involved with Face Britain because we know that good ideas can change the world, and this one is a beauty.www.the-partners.com
St Ives Group
St Ives Group have kindly donated print services to support Face Britain"When we were approached by The Prince’s Foundation for Children & the Arts regarding Face Britain we were extremely excited and delighted to have been asked to participate in supporting this charity. For me personally this project has been an absolute delight and a highlight of my career for many reasons. Instead of managing something that is manufactured to increase sales and footfall I am involved in a project that reaches out to children of all backgrounds and for something that will be remembered by all involved for years to come and of course links beautifully in to our heritage and history!"We at St Ives are indeed the lucky ones to have been chosen as the print supplier to support such an important and worthwhile project and for that we are grateful to be able to take part."Debbie Nedza, Group Sales Development Director, St Ives Groupwww.st-ives.co.uk
Arjowiggins Creative Papers
Arjowiggins Creative Papers have kindly donated all paper stock to support Face BritainAt Arjowiggins Creative Papers we see every blank sheet of paper as an exciting new beginning, offering the potential for inspired thinking and artistic adventures. We are therefore delighted to support Face Britian with our range of premium fine papers and thereby encourage each child to experience the joy of art and creativity.  And perhaps through this initiative we might even inspire a future great artist or celebrated British designer! www.arjowigginscreativepapers.com
Royal Mail Group
Royal Mail kindly made a financial donation to help support this project.Royal Mail has a strong Royal Connection and its Community Investment programme has a strong focus on both youth and community. We believe that the Face Britain project, which will help inspire and engage young people across the UK, is an extremely worthy cause and Royal Mail is happy to support it.www.royalmailgroup.com
The Projection Studio
The Projection Studio have been creating large-scale projection events since 1994.  We specialise in architectural projection art and creating stunning visuals on a monumental scale.  The Projection Studio are able to offer these skills to a whole range of events. We have a worldwide reputation in projection events and artworks.
We are sensitive the needs of the commissioning body and work hard with them to make the event a success.
We are proud to be supporting Face Britain.
For more information please visit our website www.theprojectionstudio.com
Creative Technology
Creative Ideas, Technical Reality
Delighted to be supporting Face Britain, Creative Technology (CT) has been combining innovative thinking with a passion for technology for over 25 years.
A leading international supplier of specialist Audio Visual equipment to the live events, broadcast and entertainment industries, CT’s bespoke events staging services bring together advice, support and equipment of the highest quality, providing everything from large screen displays to content delivery systems. In short, CT can provide all the elements required to translate creative ideas into technical reality.
With offices throughout Europe, USA, Middle East and Asia Pacific, CT can deliver a truly global touring and event solution with each office able to support the broad range of its equipment inventory and associated services. From the unique to the sensational, CT is well placed to support events of any size, of any genre, in any location.
www.ctlondon.com
Web-in-Mind
Web-in-Mind design and develop bespoke solutions to digital business issues including web sites and internet presence.  Our team can do this because we have developed considerable expertise with world leaders: eBay, Amazon and Procter & Gamble. Web-in-Mind were pleased to be able to help Face Britain solve some of their digitally technical issues and are excited to be involved in such a great project.www.web-in-mind.com
B&Q;
Headline Sponsors
"We’re
delighted to be the headline sponsors of such a wonderful project.  We here at B&Q are extremely proud of our work with
young people. Learning practical skills and realising you have the ability to
complete a hands-on project for yourself is a great confidence boost and is
transferable to all aspects of life. It is also a way to show young people who
are less suited to a traditional, academic approach that they can achieve in
other areas. This is why Face Britain is something that really excites
us; it’s great to be part of a project that’s championing the power of the arts
to help transform children’s lives and is fantastic to see how many young
people have got involved. We look forward to seeing how the project progresses
and will be supporting every step of the way."
Jacqueline Caston, Director of Reputation and Activation, B&Q
Select Age
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Select a Region
East
East Midlands
London
North East
North West
Northern Ireland
Scotland
South East
South West
Wales
West Midlands
Yorkshire
Choose a medium
Drawing
Painting
Photo
Collage
Other
