Her Majesty the Queen 60 years Diamond Jubilee
HomeProfilesHonoursNewsArea MapRole of LieutenancyHistoryRoyal VisitsContact UsYou are here:
Home
Diamond Jubilee
The Diamond Jubilee        Celebrating 60 years since Her Majesty the Queen's accession to the throne.For details of how the Jubilee has been celebrated nationally click here.Click on the following links for details about specific events.   Over the long weekend 2 - 5 June there were some significant contributions made by representatives of the Renfrewshire Lieutenancy in the national celebrations, these are detailed at the bottom of this page. For general information about the Queen and the monarchy.We have available the following Jubilee teaching materials:Teachers notes for various age groups: click here to download A powerpoint presentation that can be used in conjunction with the teacher notes: click here to downloadWednesday 4 July  (PM) - Visit by Her Majesty the Queen to Greenock Municipal Buildings.The Lord-Lieutenant of Renfrewshire welcomed HM The Queen and HRH The Duke of Edinburgh to Inverclyde on Wednesday, 4 July 2012 as part of the celebrations to mark The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee. Invited guests included Sheriff Principal Bruce Kerr, local politicians, business leaders, uniformed organisation representatives and school children. Large crowds had gathered at Cathcart Street, Cathcart Square and Clyde Square to see The Queen who last visited the Municipal Buildings at Greenock in 1958, five years after the Coronation.Escorted by the Lord-Lieutenant of Renfrewshire, Provost Robert Moran and John Mundell, Chief Executive of Inverclyde Council, Her Majesty and His Royal Highness met Alf Young, Chairman and Bill Nicol, Chief Executive of Riverside Inverclyde, viewed a model of the Inverclyde Regeneration Area and heard about various key regeneration areas and initiatives. Her Majesty and His Royal Highness then met representatives of Inverclyde Community Development Trust, Inverclyde Tourist Group, ClydePort, the Ocean Youth Trust Scotland and Port Glasgow Otters.Having signed the Council’s Visitors Book, Her Majesty unveiled a plaque to formally open Inverclyde Council’s new £2 million Customer Service Centre which has been designed to transform the way the Council communicates with its customers. Before Her Majesty and His Royal Highness departed, Faith O'Brien, Lady Alice Primary School and Ben Barilli, Aileymill Primary School, who had won a local school competition, presented Her Majesty with a posy of flowers.Her Majesty and His Royal Highness then drove by car to Battery Park in Gourock via the Esplanade. Further large crowds had gathered right along the route to see the Royal Party before they departed by helicopter. Saturday 21 AprilDiamond Jubilee / Armed Forces Day Service of Thanksgiving in Paisley AbbeyThe Service was attended by many Armed Forces veterans, current servicemen and the Provosts of East Renfrewshire, Renfrewshire and Inverclyde Councils. Representatives of all three communities, including local youth organisations were also present.. Following a parade led by members of the Royal British Legion, Reverend Alan Birss, Minister of Paisley Abbey, Reverend James Gibson, Chaplain in Ordinary to Her Majesty The Queen and the Right Reverend Philip Tartaglia, Bishop of Paisley led the Service. As members of the congregation arrived, the Renfrewshire Schools Senior Brass Ensemble played a selection of music and during the service an Anthem was performed by the East Renfrewshire Schools’ Intermediate Choir. Funds collected during the Offering were donated to The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Trust  Sunday 19 MayArmed Forces Day/Diamond Jubilee Concerts - East RenfrewshireWith support from the Newton Mearns Branch of the Royal British Legion, two combined Armed Forces Day/Diamond Jubilee Concerts were held in Eastwood Theatre, East Renfrewshire, on 19 May at which the organisers raised funds for Glasgow’s Helping Heroes. All of the performers gave their time free of charge to help support the country’s Armed Forces and celebrate the Jubilee. Performers included saxophonist Richard Scholfield, trumpeter Nicholas Scholfield and vocalists Frank Duffy and Jemma Stevenson. Magic acts and a stirring piping rendition were also amongst performances Saturday 2 JuneEast Renfrewshire - Retailtrust Jubilee FeteHeld at the Retailtrust Crookfur Estate, home to 140 elderly residents in a mixture of sheltered housing, the trust is the principal charity of the retail trade aimed at providing support and assistance to people working in, or retired from, the retail industry when they or their families need it.     The Fete was well attended and raised £3500.00 for the Trust.Jim Murphy MP, John Amabile, Patricia Thomson, DL, Provost Alastair Carmichael, Nigel Rothband (retailtrust C.E.O.) and the Piper.Sunday 3 JuneThe Renfrewshire Lieutenancy was represented in the Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant by the Royal West of Scotland Amateur Boat Club’s “Orkney Gig” coastal rowing boat: White Foreland. The Crew accompanying her totalled 11 of which 3 provided vital support and 8 travelled in her during the Pageant. The crew was drawn from the RWSABC and the Castle Semple Rowing Club in Lochwinnoch.After leaving Greenock on Friday 1 June by minibus, towing ‘White Foreland’, they travelled south reaching the launching and scrutineering area , near Chiswick, early on Saturday morning. Here the boat was unloaded and ‘dressed’ in preparation for the Pageant the following day. In the evening the crew were delighted to be visited by the Lord Lieutenant and Mrs Clark who had walked a considerable distance, lugging stores, to the campsite to offer them all good wishes for the event.After a wet and windy night, which half the crew spent under canvas, they made ready to leave. Launch time was brought forward to 10am as the organisers had to get 160 boats on the water in less than 2 hours. As anyone watching on TV would have seen, the weather in London on the day was miserable. The boat set off under grey skies with a steady cold drizzle but with all on board in great spirits. The eight on board used the six miles to the muster point to take it in turns to row and steer. As the start had been so early the crew stopped for a while and took the opportunity to sit and watch the huge variety of craft and costumes and to enjoy the feeling of being part of this incredible event.At the muster point the boats rafted together while waiting for the start and the crew fuelled up with sandwiches and fruit. They shared a laugh with the crew of the neighbouring boat, all young women, about trying to be discrete with a poncho & bucket while the world’s media trained their cameras upon you. There had been no opportunities to visit the single loo stop on the way. As the food disappeared the excitement started to mount and it seemed a very short time before the boats were asked to move out into the stream again.Before the event there had been considerable stress on finding the correct position and staying in the right lane. Each boat was numbered and the crew searched for others to line up with but this proved impossible as the number was small, on one side and right at the front! In the end each one simply found a space and waited for the signal.For White Foreland and the other 160 ‘man powered’ boats the sound of the Princess Elizabeth steam engine whistling as it crossed Battersea railway bridge was the start of an incredible journey. Each one set off trying to keep to the very strict four knots speed limit and stay on schedule without colliding!As the flotilla passed the Royal party those aboard White Foreland were in a good position to see the Queen and Prince Phillip and the amazing decoration on the Spirit of Chartwell. The boats halted a little further on as they carried out the Royal Salute – lifting up blades in unison and cheering. From there on it was a long steady row to the end of the Pageant route at Tower Bridge. Despite the distance and the increasingly chilly weather, the banks of the Thames and its bridges were packed with people, the cheering and waving as the boats passed by kept those rowing in great spirits. The sight of London dressed for the occasion, the bridges painted and full of celebrating crowds, and the City landmarks framed by Tower Bridge was something that those on the water will remember forever.The rain had held off for most of the route but as the crew passed under Tower Bridge the heavens opened. The wide brimmed cricket hats used as part of the costume and the crews plastic ponchos really came into their own and kept the worst of the icy water out to start with. It was a good few miles to the exit point and many boats took the offer of a tow from one of the many safety boats. Our crew however turned the offer down and battled on under their own steam to reach the allotted disembarkation area , from start to finish a row of 15 miles. After disembarkation the boat was loaded back on to its trailer and taken back to Chiswick before returning home the following day.The Lieutenancy are indebted to the two rowing clubs and the crew for agreeing to represent the Renfrewshire Lieutenancy in the Pageant. We are also very grateful to Holland House Electrical Suppliers, Jonathan Muirhead DL of Scottish Leather Group, Mr James Wardrop OBE DL, Margaret Baird DL, Sir Ronald Garrick CBE DL, Dr Peter Semple DL, Archibald Hunter DL, Alison Gilchrist DL, Col Peter McCarthy DL, David Foggie DL, Norman Walker DL, Brigadier Alistair MacMillan DL and Lady Lucinda Shaw Steswart DL for assisting in the Sponsorship of our participation.Getting ready for take off 1 June Dressing the boat 2 June On the Thames 15 miles to go ! Sunday 3 June Uplawmoor Jubilee Big LunchDespite the grey skies the people of Uplawmoor celebrated the Jubilee with great enthusiasm at a lunch organised by the Uplawmoor Community Council on the village's playing fields.Monday 4 June.One of the main events forming part of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations was a chain of more than 4000 Beacons of which most were in the UK but also many in every Commonwealth country. Her Majesty the Queen lit the final one in London following the Buckingham Palace concert at 10;30pm on Monday 4 June. Two minutes before at 10:28, the allotted time, the Renfrewshire Lieutenancy Beacon was lit on Beacon Hill above Langbank.The site known as Beacon Hill is reputed to have been a Roman beacon point during the period when the area south of the Forth Clyde was part of the Roman Empire. The hill provided a line of sight between the end of the Antonine Wall at Old Kilpatrick and the Roman Port near Gourock whilst being close to the road connecting them, which now forms much of the Old Greenock Road. The view is very impressive in all directions and therefore seemed the perfect place for what was a very impressive blaze. About 130 people watched it being lit and many were also able to see about another half dozen other ones above Clydebank, Gartocharn, Rhu and Paisley.The Lieutenancy is very grateful to the Forestry Commission for letting us use Beacon Hill, to Mr William Nisbet of Bogside Farm for getting all the wood to the site, Jono and Mark Bradford; Peter McCarthy and William MacMillan for their work preparing the wood, removing and replaceing the turf, building the Beacon and clearing the embers the following day.(The two photographs of the Beacon alight were taken by Christopher Vine of Peter's Railway and the photograph of the builders was taken by Peter McCarthy DL.) The Builders having completed their task on the morning of Monday 4 June. The round white dot under the flames is the whole moon !The view to the north at about 10:35pm on Monday 4 June. Uplawmoor Primary School - Jubilee Crown Competition and partyAll 61 children entered the competition which was judged by Patricia Thomson DL.   The competition and party was organised by the school's Parent Teacher Association. JUBILEE CONNECTED EVENTS:Tuesday 22 May - Visit of HRH the Earl of Wessex to the Isobel Mair SchoolHis Royal Highness The Earl of Wessex visited the new Isobel Mair School and Family Centre, Newton Mearns, East Renfrewshire on 22 May 2012. During the visit to East Renfrewshire’s only school for children with additional support needs, His Royal Highness was escorted by Head Teacher Mari Wallace and met the head boy 17-year old Fabio Ramaglioni, other pupils, staff and parents, including representatives of the School’s Parent Council.The new school building cost £12.1m, currently has a school roll of 132 and caters for pupils ranging from 3 – 18 years old. The school has 3 teaching areas, including 16 classrooms in the main building and a separate centre with 3 rooms where young people can learn life skills, including how to look after a home. The Mod, which is the school’s main hall, is used for PE, dance, drama, assemblies and social gatherings.During his visit His Royal Highness joined former commonwealth gymnast Steve Frew as he led a PE session with pupils in The Mod and spoke to pupils and staff who were using the wide range of resources available in the school. He also visited the hydrotherapy and splash pool and sensory garden, and was treated to a display of wheelchair Scottish country dancing as pupils performed their ‘reels on wheels’. The school joined the national Jubilee celebrations by showcasing the work of pupils who had researched key points in Her Majesty The Queen’s life and a Diamond Jubilee Quiz that had been compiled.His Royal Highness also planted a tree and unveiled a plaque to commemorate the work of Isobel Mair School pupils in planting a special ‘Jubilee wood’ in the grounds of the school. Tuesday 22 May -  Visit of HRH the Earl of Wessex to the New Cargill Centre KilmacolmOn arrival, His Royal Highness spent some time with a large crowd of onlookers who had gathered outside. Mrs Helen Calvert, Chair of Kilmacolm New Community Centre Board (KNCC), then escorted him on a guided tour of the Centre. Inside the building, on the ground floor, His Royal Highness was briefed on the history and development of the project including through a display of photographs. He also met the Acting Head Teacher and prize winning pupils from Kilmacolm Primary School who are researching the history of the Centre and pupils from St Columba’s School who are participating in The Duke of Edinburgh Awards Scheme.During a tour of the upper floors, when His Royal Highness was introduced to some of those attending groups and classes being held in the Centre, he talked to representatives of the Handicraft Group, the Portrait Class, the Fashion Class and Kilmacolm Art Group. The tour culminated with some light refreshments in the Centre's cafe, the Hub, in the company of KNCC Board members, Centre staff and some members of the community. Prior to leaving the Centre and having been thanked by Mrs Calvert for his visit, His Royal Highness unveiled a plaque to commemorate his visit.  Tuesday 22 May - Visit of HRH the Earl of Wessex to the Beacon Arts Centre in GreenockThe Beacon is a £10 million project, currently being built on former dockland at Customhouse Quay, Greenock. His Royal Highness, who has been Patron of Greenock Arts Guild since 2009 who own The Beacon, visited the site as construction of the new building nears completion. It is due to open in October this year.His Royal Highness toured the building and met with members of the design and construction teams and Directors of the Arts Guild who have raised funds for the project over the last 8 years. The new building will house a 500 seat main auditorium together with a 130 seat studio theatre, 3 large rehearsal rooms and a riverside café/ bar with outstanding views over the Clyde. The Beacon will replace the Arts Guild Theatre which has served the community as its main arts venue for almost 70 years. It is set to play an important part in the wider regeneration of Inverclyde and there are plans and funding in place to offer employment and educational opportunities to those who have been long-term unemployed and those from challenged backgrounds.The new building takes its name from the Georgian lamp which sits in front of the adjacent Customhouse. It was originally known as “The Beacon” and, as such, was a guiding light for ships mooring at the quayside on which the Beacon Arts Centre is being built.Later in the evening His Royal Highness The Earl of Wessex was guest of honour at a fundraising Dinner which took place at Ardgowan in support of The Beacon.  Friday 22 June - Renfrewshire Armed Forces Day Flag Raising Monday 25 June - East Renfrewshire Armed Forces Day Flag Raising Monday 25 June - Inverclyde Armed Forces Day Flag RaisingProvost Moran addresses those assembled to mark the flag raising. General informationFor further information about Renfrewshire Lieutenancy, please use the contact form© 2011 Renfrewshire LieutenancyJubilee Look BackContact UsFind UsSitemapPrivacy
