Street Party - Meet your Neighbours in your Traffic-free Street
Your resource for street party planning, advice and support
Contact usNewsletter sign-upAbout Streets Alive
Plan YOUR street party
Bunting and street party kit
Street party resources
Road closure
Street party insurance
Why have a street party?
With our more mobile and diverse lives street parties are a great way to meet your neighbours and build community spirit. Join our national campaign to make street parties a regular part of life.
Where do I start?
Read our guide to planning a street party, which includes our Top Tips, how to involve neighbours and your frequently asked questions. Also read about how to deal with road closures and insurance.
News about street parties
Street Parties for Sapphire Jubilee…
Spread neighbourliness beyond your street this Christmas!…
Street Parties Are More Than Royal…
Guide to Street PartiesPlan your street party here.
SwapShop and Play Guides
Ask us for our free Neighbours' SwapShop Guide for exchanging things and helping, or our all-ages Street Play Guide
Street Party Insurance
Don't be daunted by the question of insurance. Not all councils require it.Find out more…
Bunting is essential!Where to get bunting plus more street party kit ideas…
Who are Streets Alive?
Streets Alive promotes community spirit at the street level through street parties and other neighbourly activities. As a not-for-profit group since 2001 we have helped 1000s of residents, as well as community workers and councils to creatively support communities. Read more…
New ideas to mix age groups and reduce isolation, especially of older people. Ask how to run the Campaign in your area…
Road ClosuresSee our guide to making life easier to close your road for your street party
Street Party Capital
Bristol is the street party capital of the UK, with 150 events held each year for the neighbourly fun of it. Read more…
Have a 'street meet'
Try a 'street meet' without closing a road on a pavement, garden, parking area or in a local park…
Home | Links | Site map | Privacy policy | Site credits | Advertising
All photos and text ©2016 Streets Alive Ltd.
