Sir Tony Baldry
Home
About Sir Tony
Contact
General Synod
Charity Work
Agincourt 600
Katharine House Hospice
St Ethelburga’s
Directorships
GNet
Kazakhstan Kagazy
Church Buildings Council
When to consult the CBC
Guidance notes
Charitable grants for churches
Tony Baldry comments on House of Bishops’ Report on Sexuality
[9 Feb 2017]
To download a copy of Sir Tony Baldry’s comments please click on the following link: House of Bishops Report on Sexuality February 2017.
Read the full story »
Sir Tony becomes High Steward of Banbury
[15 Mar 2016]
Sir Tony Baldry appointed a Deputy Lieutenant for Oxfordshire
[2 Mar 2016]
What are Festival Churches?
[3 Feb 2016]
Sir Tony Baldry comments on Banbury Museum Trust
[21 Jan 2016]
Parliament
Click to view Sir Tony’s work at Westminster during his time as a Member of Parliament.
Work
Updates from Sir Tony on his work.
Letters
Read recent letters sent by Sir Tony in his various roles.
Diary
Click to read the details of Sir Tony’s upcoming engagements and view photographs from recent events.
Cuttings
Excerpts from the latest news and media articles featuring Sir Tony.
Diary, Work »
GateNet Group Plc attend CBBC Conference
[23 Mar 2016]
Sir Tony Baldry and Patrick Tsang of GateNet Group plc together with Lord Sassoon, chair of the China Britain Business Council at the CBBC Conference in London on Tuesday 22nd March.
Cuttings, Work »
Baldry responds to Sunday Telegraph article
[21 Mar 2016]
The article in the Sunday Telegraph was more akin to a piece that one would have expected to read in “Private Eye” than in a responsible, broadsheet newspaper, committed to responsible journalism and fair reporting.
Cuttings, Diary »
Banbury Guardian: Sir Tony given High Steward role for Banbury
[16 Feb 2016]
The role of High Steward of Banbury has been revived after a gap of almost 50 years.
Cuttings, Work »
Budding young artist Lucas wins design competition for Queen’s birthday celebrations
[15 Feb 2016]
The winner of a competition to design a logo for the Church of England’s celebrations in honour of Her Majesty the Queen’s 90th birthday has been announced. The logo designed by Lucas Salinger, aged 10, from Hertfordshire, was picked from over 1000 entries.
Cuttings, Diary »
Banbury Guardian: Katharine House Hospice celebrates 25th anniversary
[10 Feb 2016]
Katharine House Hospice marked its 25th Anniversary last Thursday with an event for local businesses who have supported the charity over the last quarter of a century.
Next Page »
Get updates from Tony Get Tony's updates on RSS
Subscribe to Tony's email newsletter here
Follow Tony on Twitter
North Oxfordshire on Flickr
Powered by WordPress |
Log in | Entries (RSS) | Comments (RSS) | Arthemia theme by Michael Hutagalung
