Fantastic things to do in Norfolk
skip to main navigation
skip to content
The official visitor website for Norfolk
Inspire
Beaches & Coast
Culture & Arts
Families & Friends
Feeling Lucky?
Food & Drink
Heritage & History
Outdoors & Wildlife
Seven Wonders
Seven Natural Wonders
Explore
Brecks & Thetford Forest
Broadland and Broads
Great Yarmouth
King's Lynn & West Norfolk
North Norfolk
Norwich
South Norfolk & Waveney Valley
Things to do
Arts & Culture
Attractions
Beaches & Coast
Birdwatching
Boating & Sailing
Christmas & Winter
Churches & Cathedrals
Cycling
Deep History Coast
Golf
History & Heritage
Railways
Seals in Norfolk
Walking
Weddings & Events
What's On
Where to Stay
A huge range of family attractions
Walk the coast and countryside
Shows and events all year round
Lots of cycling and walking
routes
Things to do in Norfolk
Whatever your interests, whatever your age, whether you're on your own, as a couple, in a group, or with kids, Norfolk has things to do for you all. Find things to do in Norwich, the Norfolk Broads, Great Yarmouth, the coast and countryside at any time of the year.
Arts & Culture
Attractions
Beaches & Coast
Birdwatching
Boating & Sailing
Churches & Cathedrals
Cycling
Deep History Coast
Golf
Heritage & History
Railways
Walking
Weddings & Events
Where to see the seals
Norfolk is a great place to enjoy outdoor activities
There are plenty of reasons to visit at any time of the year. There's plenty of things to do in the Norfolk Broads such as boating and sailing, canoeing and kayaking; go crabbing or rockpooling at the coast and enjoy the attractions of Great Yarmouth, Cromer and Hunstanton; and Norwich is a hot bed of events, activities and entertainment.
We don't agree with Noel Coward's Private Lives 'Very flat, Norfolk' comment, but it's true we don't have many mountains. Gently undulating would be more like it, which makes cycling and walking through beautiful countryside and along unspoilt coast an absolute joy.
Wondering what to do in Norfolk? We have fabulous golf courses (although it can get a bit Crazy in Great Yarmouth), including links, and if you can't have a break without a twitch, we have some of the best birdwatching in the UK.
Read our blogs about...
Beach & Coast
Culture & Arts
Families & Friends
Heritage & History
Outdoors & Wildlife
Seven Wonders
theme your time in norfolk
Family fun
Norfolk coast
Heritage & History
Norfolk food & drink
Adventure in Norfolk
Festivals & Culture
There are so many things to see in Norfolk
Art lovers and culture vultures will be in their element. You'll find many galleries and exhibitions, and concerts range from classical at country houses to outdoor pop in Thetford Forest. Festivals include beer, literature, food and drink and the biggest of them all - the Norfolk and Norwich Festival in May.
Whatever the weather, Norfolk has attractions to suit all tastes and pockets, from adventure parks to animals in zoos, from historic houses to excellent gardens and museums.
Norfolk is also a county where history comes to life – and what a history it is, ranging from Seahenge, which has been dated to around 2050BC, to the award-winning Time & Tide museum which tells the story of the Great Yarmouth fishing industry.
Those who have left their mark on Norfolk include Romans, Saxons, Normans, Dutch and Americans. Figures from history include Boudicca and Nelson, whose national importance is such that their statues top-and-tail Whitehall in London, and the Hollywood actor James Stewart earned honours as a courageous second world war air force commander flying from a base in Norfolk.
Norfolk County Council's Out and About in Norfolk has information including Public Rights of Way, Windmills and activities for children and young people.
Sitemap
Visit Norfolk Sitemap
Visit Norfolk
About Visit Norfolk
About Norfolk
Contacts us
Newsletter sign-up
Partners & Links
Travel to Norwich, Norfolk
What the press say
Information
Accessible Norfolk
Brochures and leaflets
Relocate to Norfolk
Tourist Information Centres
Tourism Industry
Advertising Opportunities
Conference & Business Tourism
Group Travel
Information & Statistics
Join your local DMO
Tourism newsletter sign-up
Legal
Privacy policy
You are accepting third-party cookies.
