atd-uk.org
Contact
Donate
Home
Projects & Campaigns
Resources
Get Involved
Blog
Donate
Contact
The Roles We Play: Challenging Perceptions of Poverty
The Roles We Play: Challenging Perceptions of Poverty, a new, multimedia exhibition from ATD Fourth World and Eva Sajovic, is now touring the country.
This new exhibition, showcasing short films as well as photographs and text from the book The Roles We Play: Recognising the Contribution of People Living in Poverty, aims to challenge negative stereotypes of people who experience poverty and social exclusion.
Addressing the launch of the touring exhibition, one participant said, “The project has helped me be able to talk to other people and not be ashamed that we live in poverty. It may still be a struggle but we are getting there… I have also gotten my confidence back. It can be nerve-racking to stand up in front of strangers and talk about our lives but the responsibility is a great one and every time I do it I feel I have accomplished something.” Read more...For more information on the tour or to register an interest in hosting an event, please use the contact box on the top right of your screen or phone 0207 703 3231.
The Roles We Play: Challenging Perceptions of Poverty is supported by the Big Lottery Fund Awards for All.
Speak Out for Change
Speak Out for Change, a Giving Poverty a Voice project report, is now available to download here.
When Giving Poverty a Voice began two and a half years ago, it was with the aim of enabling those with first-hand experience of poverty, inequality and social exclusion to identify the issues on which they would most like to see change and explores ways to make their voices heard.
Using a mixture of discussion groups, workshops focused on training for public speaking and expert-led presentations, the project has covered topics ranging from housing and government reforms of the benefits system through to the relevance of voting in elections and human rights. Read more...
In November 2014, Giving Poverty a Voice held a conference to look back over the project so far, highlight its achievements and address its impact on participants' lives with a view to guiding the future direction of the project. This report summarises the key findings of that event.
In the words of one mother, “Giving Poverty a Voice has given me the chance to be a part of something that puts in the public eye the voice of people who often can't speak for themselves and make people aware that poverty exists and not to sweep it under the carpet.”
The Roles We Play: Recognising the Contribution of People in Poverty
The Roles We Play: Recognising the Contribution of People in Poverty, a new, full-colour book, is now available to download here.
The result of a collaboration between ATD Fourth World and artist and photographer Eva Sajovic, the book takes its cue from the original photo exhibition that toured the country in 2010, as well as the participatory film project of 2012, and features both professional portrait photographs and self-written biographies that focus on what people do to combat poverty and social exclusion in their everyday lives and in their communities.
The aim is to challenge negative stereotypes of people who experience poverty and social exclusion and are largely dependent on income from benefits. Read more...
In the words of Kathy, one of the participants, “This project is very important to me because it means I am not invisible anymore; I am recognised as a human being with thoughts, feelings and aspirations. I feel respected. It helps me define myself more positively and feel I have a valuable part to play in society.”
The book was made possible by support from the Big Lottery Fund Awards for All.
About Us
ATD FOURTH WORLD is a human rights-based, anti-poverty organisation with more than 40 years' experience of engaging with individuals and institutions to find solutions to eradicate extreme poverty in the UK.
Working in partnership with people affected by poverty, ATD Fourth World has, since 1968, concentrated its efforts on supporting families and influencing policy through work at Frimhurst Family House in Surrey and our National Centre in London. Read more...
A member of the International Movement ATD Fourth World, we work in more than twenty-five countries throughout Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia. We work with affiliated organisations in 90 other countries and have over 100,000 members worldwide.
As part of our commitment to representing people living in poverty at an international level, ATD Fourth World has a permanent delegation at the European Union and holds general consultative status with UNICEF, UNESCO, ECOSOC, the International Labour Organisation and the Council of Europe.
On 17 October 1987, ATD Fourth World was at the root of the laying of a Commemorative Stone honouring the victims of extreme poverty, violence and hunger on the Parvis des Droits de l'Homme et des Libertes in Paris. Five years later, the United Nations recognised 17 October as the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty and called on all nations to renew their commitment to fighting poverty and to show their solidarity with the poor.
Since then, more than thirty similar Commemorative Stones have already been laid around the world, from the European Parliament in Brussels to the Gardens of the United Nations in New York. Each one bears the words of Joseph Wresinski, the founder of the International Movement ATD Fourth World: "Wherever men and women are condemned to live in extreme poverty, human rights are violated. To come together to ensure that these rights be respected is our solemn duty."
Publications
Read the latest edition of the Giving Poverty a Voice newsletter here (pdf).
Or download the latest annual review (pdf).
Frimhurst Family House
Frimhurst Family House is a fully-modernised Victorian house set in its own extensive woodland and grounds and is, for many families, a refuge where parents and children can spend quality time together away from the stresses of daily life.
As the location for all residential aspects of ATD Fourth World's Family Support Programme, Frimhurst Family House aims to provide families with a setting in which to relax, to spend quality time together, to think clearly, to learn new skills, to meet other families in the same situation and to learn together in a respectful, non-judgemental environment.  Read more...
With residential accommodation for 30 people, a carpentry workshop, an art studio, dining facilities and disabled access, Frimhurst is also available to hire for a variety of purposes, including conferences, group meetings, wedding receptions, children’s parties and private classes.
For more information, contact:Frimhurst Family HouseGuildford RoadFrimley Green,Surrey GU16 6NUtel: 01252 835489email: contact@atdfrimhurst.co.uk
Tweets by @ATDFourthWorld
48, Addington Square. London SE5 7LB • 0207 703 3231 •
• Registered Charity N° 209367
