Welcome to the Action for Blind People website » Action For Blind People
Skip to main content
Accessibility
Privacy & Cookies
Contact us
Sign in
Search
Menu
Home
Support & Information
About us
Get involved
Donate
Action Connect
Welcome to the Action for Blind People website
Action for Blind People provides practical and emotional advice and support across England to people who are blind or partially sighted and their friends and family.
Find out more about our work
What does RNIB Connect mean for you?
We’ve decided to create a wider stronger community bringing together Action Connect and RNIB members. Find out what this means for you and have your say in our forum.
Get involved in a discussion online
Get help locally
Find your nearest Local Action Team
Town or Postcode
Or
view all Local Action Teams
How can we help today?
I would like to know about eye health
Information about living with sight loss
Should I register my sight loss?
I want to find out about services
I want to meet others in my situation
Where can I get help?
My child has sight loss
How can technology support me?
Events near me
Featured Content
Support and services
Looking after your eyes
Enter our Spring Raffle today!
From the Action Connect Community
Blog
Adapting to sight loss whilst being deaf
Deanne shares her experiences of losing her sight whilst being deaf and provides guidelines for others going through the same experience to follow.
By Guest blogger
Read the full blog post
View all Blogs
Events
North London Actionnaires - Treasure Hunt
North London Actionnaires - Treasure Hunt
25 February 2017 10:30am
105 Judd Street , London, WC1H 9NE View map
View full event details
View all Events
Forums
Games for the iPhone.
HappyHeart
Does anyone find it frustrating that there aren't many games for the iPhone. I love games where you can do missions and go on quests. there aren't many like that. I used to play a game called Ayakashi: ghost guild, but now it doesn't work. I think there should be more voice over accessible games.
Hey, I've played a couple cool games tailored for VI gamers. I don't have a visual impairment personally but both of these have been well reviewed by those who are.
First one is called Papa Sangre which is a horror game based entirely on audio...
Join the conversation
View all Forums
We see the capability not the disability
Contact us through the RNIB helpline
0303 123 9999
The Action Email Newsletter
Sign up today
Sitemap
Terms & Conditions
© 2015 - 2017 Action for Blind People
Registered Charity Number 205913 (England and Wales) SC040050 (Scotland)
