Adoption UK
Adoption UK
Join
Login
Adopter Voice
Home
Donate
Forum
About adoption
Children who wait
About us
Resources
Training
Support us
Shop
Find out more about Adoption UK's celebrity ambassadors
Find out more
Do something amazing for your birthday. Ask for donations to AUK & help us secure more support for adopted children
Make Birthdays Count
Check out our brand new blog where adoptive parents and adoptees share their stories.
Your stories
Schools Campaign - We want to make every school attachment-aware
Join our campaign
Download our new and exciting fundraising pack: every penny you raise will help us change lives.
Fundraise
Skip Content
Supporting you through the process
Adoptive parents and prospective adopters value meeting both online and in real life to share the challenges and rewards of adoptive parenting.
Reasons to join our community
You'll become part of a network of more than 10,000 adoptive parents, prospective adopters and foster carers.
Adoption today is our flagship publication, and will keep you up to date, connected and informed.
Local authorities and voluntary adoption agencies can access a wealth of information, benefits and discounts.
You will have access to a range of support services delivered by experienced adoptive parents
Find out more about joining our community
Join the Adopter Voice Forum
Find out about membership
Sign up to our newsletter
Currently discussing
The latest conversations & help between our members
Ignorant Bystanders
Last Comment: 19.02.17
1-off Meeting with Birthparents
Last Comment: 19.02.17
How much adoption leave must I take?
Last Comment: 19.02.17
Talk to other adopters
Latest news
What's happening at Adoption UK & Adoption issues
Impact of Child on Parent Violence (CPV) examined
17.02.17
A report into Child on Parent Violence (CPV) examines how it impacts upon parents individually and their respective family unit collectively.
Charity receives £18,000 boost to develop volunteer project
10.02.17
Adoption UK's chief executive Hugh Thornbery CBE to retire
30.01.17
All news
Latest training & events
Get involved with Adoption UK training & events
All Events
Call our Helpline
We have four dedicated Helplines to support adopters and prospective adopters wherever you are in the UK.
© 2017 Adoption UK
Image Credits
Charity web design by Fat Beehive
Site links
contact us|
media|
about adopting|
children who wait|
support us|
shop|
Site tools
site map|
accessibility|
text only|
privacy policy|
cookies|
terms & conditions
By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept
The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this.
Close
