advice services alliance – The umbrella body for independent advice services in the UK
advice services allianceThe umbrella body for independent advice services in the UKHome
About ASA
Contact us
Home
Need advice?
Advice Quality Standard
Health and Advice
Advice Services Transition Fund
Archive
Need advice?ASA is an umbrella organisation and does not provide advice to the public. If you need advice, we can advise you who to contact.
Advice Quality Standard
The Advice Quality Standard (AQS) is the only sector-owned, independently audited standard that focuses on advice. It is awarded to organisations that give advice to the public on legal issues.
Organisations are audited every two years and have to demonstrate that they are accessible, effectively managed, and employ staff with the skills and knowledge to meet the needs of their clients. Read more »
Health and Advice
A joint evidence review between the Advice Services Alliance and the Low Commission, led to a report outlining key findings from 140 research studies in the field, and an overview of 58 integrated health & welfare Advice Services.
A clear message comes from these wide-ranging sources; that welfare advice in health care settings results in better individual health and well-being, and a lower demand for health services. Read more »
Advice Services Transition Fund Learning and Support
In January 2014, the Advice Services Alliance was awarded the Big Lottery Fund contract for providing Learning and Support to the 228 Advice Service Transition Fund (ASTF) partnerships.
Part of our work is to set up a website providing useful links, resources and information for practitioners working in the local partnerships. Read more »
Archive of the ASA's work
Here you can find information about past work by the Advice Services Alliance. Read more »
Working Together for Advice
Policy
Outcomes
Alternative Dispute Resolution
About ASA
Members
People
Copyright
Disclaimer
Contact us
The Advice Services Alliance is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England & Wales, no. 3533317. Registered office: (Not for correspondence) New Bridge Street House, 30-34 New Bridge Street, London, EC4V 6BJ. Charity no. 1112627.
Copyright of ASA © 2017 · Website designed and built by Jason King
This site uses cookies What does this mean?No problem
