Why cuts are the wrong cure | False Economy
False Economy ran from 2010-2015. This site is no longer being updated, but the False Economy research team continue to report at Sentinel News.
Skip navigation
Home
The wrong cure
Cuts & testimonies
Campaigns & events
Resources
Blog
Register  |  Log in
Search
Email
Password
Forgot password?
Close
False Economy is for everyone concerned about the impact of the government’s spending cuts on their community, their family or their job.
Why the cuts won't help the economy
How cuts make Britain more unfair
What the experts say
Latest
Blog
False Economy research team launches independent news site
Sentinel News will cover similar ground to False Economy, looking at the impact of funding cuts to health, education, care services and benefits More »
Barnet careworkers fight pay cut with strike action this week on 24 & 25 February
Low paid careworkers at private company Your Choice Barnet strike again this week in protest at a harsh 9.5% pay cut. More »
Government cuts to legal aid weren’t based on evidence, reveals Public Accounts Committee
The committee's key finding is that while the government rapidly reduced spending on civil legal aid, it has “introduced…[these]…major changes on the basis of no evidence in many areas…” More »
All posts »
Testimonies
JSA Sanction over a typo!
In January 2014, I was sanctioned on the spot because of a typo in my …
Beyond a farce
When my partner went to do her assessment for Employment and support …
my employees will have to go
my direct payments are being cut by 80% I have been told to sack 2 of …
All testimonies »
Where the cuts are
Cuts by region
Cuts by sector
Latest cuts
Arts and culture Benefits and pensions Children and young people Communities and local government Disability Economic development and skills Education Environment and climate change Equality Fire and coastguard Health Housing Libraries Police and justice Privatisation Social care Sport Transport Voluntary sector
Carlton Road Day Centre
Carlton Road Centre is a council-run day service for adults with profound, complex …
Newport City Council: estates/property management
Outsourced to a company called Norse
Newport Museum and Art Gallery
Closure of the temporary exhibitions programme in the Art Gallery
More cuts »
Add a cut
Add a testimony
Sign up for False Economy updates
Take action
Next events
Add an event | More events »
Facebook
False Economy
Tweets by @FalseEcon
Home
Privacy policy
About us
Contact us
Website by Social Spark
