Allia
News
About us
Contact us
Our sites
Charitable Bonds
Future Business Centre
Social Incubator East
Allia
Menu
Future Business Centre
Impact Finance
Retail Charity Bonds
Charity mini-bonds
Scottish bonds
Enterprise Support
Serious Impact
Innovation Lab
Cambridge Social Ventures (formerly Social Incubator East)
Social innovation and development
Tackling the challenges of an ageing population
East London Future Business Centre – research into reality
Blog
Allia launches Innovation Lab in Peterborough
New lab helps entrepreneurs design, prototype & build products that make positive impact on people, planet or place.
Read More
Social entrepreneurship is thriving
There were a record number of entries this year for the Allia sponsored category – Social Entrepreneurship. The winner will be announced at a ceremony in March.
Learn More
£5m for affordable housing in Scotland
Allia’s charitable bond programme for Scotland issues a further £5million for affordable housing
Read more
Serious Impact
Free support for entrepreneurs and ventures who want to make a positive impact on people, planet or place
Read more
A new way for charities to borrow
Our retail charity bonds
Read more
Innovators, investors, people with ideas wanted
Our mission to create social impact
Read more
What do we mean by Social Investment?
Phil Caroe, Director of Impact Finance
Read more
Making positive impact on people, planet or place, through enterprise
Allia is a charity that supports impact entrepreneurs and ventures – in other words, people and organisations that are dedicated to making a positive impact on people, planet or place. We provide business support, work space and finance solutions to help  ventures start up, grow and create social benefit… more
Where do you want to be?
Future Business Centres; workspace, co-working, virtual offices, event space, workshops and free business support programmes for impact entrepreneurs, start-ups and SMEs... continue
Flexible finance for positive impact
Retail Charity Bonds are an alternative to bank borrowing – a simple form of unsecured loan finance that connects charitable borrowers with ethical investors… continue
Er…take the hesitation out of your business venture
A range of free support from one day workshops to acceleration and incubation programmes, designed to energise entrepreneurs to develop and grow impact ventures… continue
Where can your idea take you?
UK’s best equipped maker space for entrepreneurs to make a positive impact. Featuring everything from 3D printers and drones to CAD and digital media… continue
FROM THE BLOG
27th January 2017 Change or Die – Mike Greene blogs for Allia
In the first of a new series of blogs, newly announced Entrepreneur in Residence at Allia Future Business Centre Peterborough,…
More >
12th January 2017 Meet 2016 Social Entrepreneurship award winner, Simprints, and learn how you could be next.
Nominations are now open for the Allia Award for Social Entrepreneurship 2017, as part of the Cambridge News Business Excellence…
More >
LATEST NEWS
24th January 2017 Secret Millionaire, Mike Greene becomes Entrepreneur-in-residence at Allia Future Business Centre, Peterborough
Support and advice for budding entrepreneurs and start-up businesses Mike Greene, serial entrepreneur, Secret Millionaire, author and passionate advocate for…
More >
17th January 2017 See you at Ageing Fit, the convention for accelerating innovation in the silver economy
AGEING FIT: 2-3 February, Lille, France Allia is a partner in a European research project, SEAS 2GROW, looking at…
More >
TWITTER
RT @ftrbusiness: What new #challenge have you taken on recently? @Investmg advises trying something new can be good for #business https://t…
2 days ago
Follow us @AlliaLtd
“At long last: financial engineering to be proud of.”
Andrew Hill
Associate Editor, FT
“The Charitable Bond lets us put a proportion of our cash reserves to good use at modest cost and minimal risk.”
Gerald Avison
Chairman, TTP Group plc
“The Charitable Bond is essentially a simple idea but a powerful tool for enabling capital to be harnessed for social benefit.”
Stuart Popham
Sign up to receive updates
sending...
Name
E-mail
About Allia
Introduction
Current Vacancies
Track record
Legals
People
Join us
© Copyright Allia 2017
What we do
Overview
Our blogs and news
Contact
Sitemap
Privacy policy
Terms & conditions
Cookie policy
Our partners
