Ann Craft Trust | ACTing against abuse
University of Nottingham
Home
What we do
What you can do
Our Training
Safeguarding Adults in Sport
News & Events
Resources
Contact us
If you need advice
LATEST:
News Widget
Things you can do
Latest News
& Events
Safeguarding Adults in Sport New Year's Resolutions
Read the Safeguarding Adults in Sport Steering Group's New Year's resolutions
Posted on January 27th, 2017
Announcing ACT's Open Training 2017
Book your place on one of our six training courses this year.
Posted on January 1st, 1970
25th October 2016 - Making a Difference in Sport
Book your place for Making a Difference in Sport in London.
Posted on October 18th, 2016
Introducing the Ann Craft Trust
At ACTwe believe that every disabled child and every adult at risk deserves to be
treated with the same respect and dignity as everyone else in society.
We are a
leading provider of safeguarding training, consultations and safeguarding adult reviews working closely with organisations and individuals across the UK to
raise awareness and improve practice.
For over 21 years
our independent research has tackled the key issues for
safeguarding disabled children and adults at risk.
Safeguarding Training Courses
We offer
a range of safeguarding disabled children and adults at risk training courses including 'Communication with Disabled Children' and 'Introduction to the Care Act'.
See our Training Courses
Safeguarding Practice Reviews
In the last 25 years ACT has supported organisations to carry out audits and reviews of their safeguarding practices.
Practice Audits & Reviews
ACT Research and Projects
Our research tackles key issues of safeguarding including forced marriage, financial abuse of people with learning disabilities.
See our Research
Safeguarding Bulletin and Updates
Our quarterly safeguarding bulletin features latest news & updates. Sign up to recieve the bulletin straight to your inbox.
See the Latest Bulletin
If you have any safeguarding concerns or would like to discuss how ACT can support your organisation please call us on 0115 951 5400 or email ann-craft-trust@nottingham.ac.uk.
Do you need help?
Meet our patrons
Filmmaker/writer Kate Spicer and Sir Roger Singleton are our patrons.
Read more
New Care Act Training
Tailored to your organisations learn more about the changes to safeguarding adults at risk of abuse.
Read more
All contents © The Ann Craft Trust, 2010 -
| Disclaimer
