ARC UK | Association for Real Change
ARC UK Home
Contact us
News
Events
ARC Blogs
Disclosure Service
Room Hire
ARC UK
Association for Real Change
About ARC
Our Work
Services
Active Support Practice Development Service
Consultancy
Disclosure Service
Information Service
Training Services
WDF Funding
What is ARC?
Networking
Representation
The Care Provider Alliance
Projects
History
Strategic Aims
Our Vision
Our Philosophy
Who’s who at ARC?
Meet the Board of Trustees
Trustee Board Meetings and AGMs
Join ARC
Benefits of joining Association for Real Change
ARC Members
Training and Qualifications
Training Courses
Active Support
Qualifications and Training
DBS
Workforce Development Funding
Publications
Jobs
Add your job listings
News
Real People Newsletter
ARC Blogs
Archived Real People
Resources
Resources
Consultations
Closed Consultations
Briefings and Meetings
RSS Feed
Prev
Next
ARC England Training Calendar February – March 2017
Use your remaining Training budget and book your places on our short courses this January to March 2017.
ARC England are pleased to be partnering with Naidex for their show at the NEC, Birmingham 28-30 March 2017. REGISTER FOR FREE TICKETS ONLINE AT WWW.NAIDEX.CO.UK
People with Learning Disabilities and the Criminal Justice System Guide
Download your free guide for family carers and learning disability services.
Helping Each Other: Sexual Exploitation project Training Materials
Download the free resources from ARC’s Helping Each Other project.
ARC Disclosure Service
Employers – No initial or annual registration fees. No commitment on the number of checks, just pay for the Disclosures you request.
Latest – Access NI moves to online checks!
Active Support Practice Development Service
Active Support is a UK wide consultancy service tailored to meet your service and/or organisational needs.
ARC Members’ Job Vacancy Listings
Our Job Vacancy Listing is free for Association for Real Change Members. See what job vacancies we currently have listed.
Latest News
Where is the love this February?
Posted on February 9, 2017 | No Comments
Blog by Lisa Lenton, ARC England Director
Continue Reading...
Workforce Development Funding 2017-18
Posted on February 7, 2017 | No Comments
We will be submitting our 2017/18 application for Skills for Care Workforce Development Funding in February 2017.
Continue Reading...
Apprenticeship levy: friend or foe?
Posted on January 26, 2017 | No Comments
Blog by Lisa Lenton, ARC England Director
Continue Reading...
ARC England Training Calendar February – March 2017
Posted on January 23, 2017 | No Comments
Use your remaining Training budget and book your places on our short courses this January to March 2017.
Continue Reading...
The time is now
Posted on January 12, 2017 | No Comments
Blog by Lisa Lenton, ARC England Director
Continue Reading...
Jubilee Court is recognised for good autism practice
Posted on January 10, 2017 | No Comments
ARC member Jubilee Court, in Sutton-in-Ashfield, has been awarded Autism Accreditation by the National Autistic Society, the UK's leading charity for people on the autism spectrum and their families.
Continue Reading...
Real Change for People with a Learning Disability
0September 29, 2014Our Values
Our four core values are our guiding principles, which will shape all our actions. Striving for excellence in all that we do, we will make sure: We are clear about […]
0October 18, 2013Our Vision
Our vision as one of the largest umbrella bodies representing service providers in the learning disability sector, is to be the first choice for: Providers across all sectors including the public, […]
0October 18, 2013Our beliefs
Our beliefs: We believe that everyone should be treated equally and, as unique individuals, everyone makes valuable contributions to society. We believe that person centred values and models of support […]
0October 17, 2013Our Strategic Aims
We have identified four strategic aims where we will focus our attention and resources to achieve Real Change. These aims are informed by a significant shift in our strategic direction, […]
What we do
0July 13, 2014ARC Disclosure Service
ARC offer an online service for DBS and AccessNI checks and a paper-based service for Scotland’s PVG Scheme, supporting employers throughout the UK to carry out criminal record checks.
0July 13, 2011Training Services and Publications
Providing training packages and qualifications relevant to the learning disability and health and social care sectors.
0July 13, 2011Information Service
Providing information to members in a variety of ways including e-newsletters.
0July 13, 2011Consultancy
Training products and services tailor-made to meet your individual organisational needs.
Older Entries
Welcome to Association for Real Change Association for Real Change is a leading umbrella body representing service providers in the learning disability sector – our purpose is to improve the quality of life for people who have a learning disability by supporting anyone who is involved in the planning or delivery of support and services.
We provide a range of services such as high quality information, networking opportunities, learning disability training, qualifications, publications, and Disclosure checks.
Association for Real Change is committed to promoting best practice within the learning disability sector and we work with others such as the Department of Health, Skills for Care, Big Lottery Fund and Comic Relief through a range of projects.
Association for Real Change works in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Tweets by ARCEngland
tweets
News
Where is the love this February?
Workforce Development Funding 2017-18
Apprenticeship levy: friend or foe?
Resources
VODG Social Value Toolkit
Here I Am – a report by Mencap
UKHCA Report – The Homecare Deficit, 2016
CQC State of Care report 2015/16
Pressure Points – Lack of community services to support carers is piling pressure on NHS emergency care
ARC Projects
Helping Each Other: Sexual Exploitation project Training Materials
19 May 2016 12:50 PM |
No Comments
Download the free resources from ARC's Helping Each Other project.
Read More
Speak up for Autism project
07 April 2016 11:26 AM |
No Comments
ARC England has just completed a joint project, funded by Skills for Care's Workforce Development Innovation Fund (WDIF), with the 'Speak up for Autism' group.
Read More
People with learning disabilities in the Criminal Justice System Guidance
08 March 2016 9:38 AM |
No Comments
ARC's Lottery funded 'People with Learning Disabilities in the Criminal Justice System' guide will be launched at a free event in Launceston, Cornwall on 26 April 2016.
Booking essential.
Read More
Creating an Ordinary Life – Active Support Project
12 May 2015 6:34 PM |
No Comments
Three year personalisation project to help providers embed a person-centred approach in the support provided to people with learning disabilities and behaviour which challenges services.
Read More
Helping Each Other
02 March 2015 12:38 PM |
No Comments
Three year project supporting a small number of young people with learning disabilities. The Devon ‘Helping Each Other’ teams would like to invite you to their end of project celebration event in March 2016.
Read More
Here to Stay
30 January 2014 5:34 PM |
No Comments
Increasing our knowledge of people with a learning disability from new migrant communities in England.
Read More
Tweet
ARC Offices:ARC Cymru (Wales)
ARC Northern Ireland
ARC Scotland
Our WorkARC Publications
ARC Training Services
Active Support
Quick LinksJoin ARC Now!
News
Privacy Policy
More ARC Sites:Disclosure Service
Giving us a Voice
Here to Stay
Personal Assistants’ Network
Real Change Challenges
Safety Net
About Arras WordPress Theme
© The Association for Real Change (ARC) All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy
Association for Real Change Registered Office: ARC House, Marsden Street, Chesterfield, Derbyshire S40 1JY
Registered Charity No. 285575 Scottish Charity No. SC039129 Registered in England Company No. 01658354
