ACF: Association of Charitable Foundations - ACF
Association of Charitable Foundations
Search
About
News
Networks & Events
Policy & practice
Jobs
Login
Register
Supporting UK Foundations
The umbrella body for foundations and grant-making charities
Good Practice
A diverse programme of events and specialist networks
Advocacy
Representing members' interests to policy-makers & legislators
Peer-Learning
A safe-space for funders to interact and exchange ideas
Information
Regular briefings, research reports, news and discussion
News
Foundations and Brexit: A view from… Europe
16 February 2017
In this series, we are taking a closer look at what Brexit means for foundations. We will include perspectives from…Read the full article
Funding arts in NI: A strategic way forward
15 February 2017
A crowd of 40 arts organisations and eight funders gathered at the Funding the Arts in Northern Ireland symposium in February.…Read the full article
Events
Foundation leadership
21 March 2017
The role of a foundation director or CEO is unlike any other in the charitable sector. This seminar offers an…View event details
Violence against women and girls network
29 March 2017
This meeting will run around the links between child sexual exploitation and adult exploitation/prostitution, how being exploited in childhood…View event details
Jobs
Crown Representative for the VCSE (Voluntary, Community and Social Enterprise Sector)
Government Commercial Function
Crown Representatives help the government to act as a single customer. They work across departments to ensure a single and…Deadline: 26 February 2017View full details
Medical Grants Officer
Royal British Legion
The Royal British Legion is recruiting for a diligent, detail-oriented grant assessor to support the ongoing delivery of the HM…Deadline: 6 March 2017View full details
Policy & Practice
Foundation Giving Trends 2016
Key facts and figures on giving, income and assets in the Top 300 UK independent charitable foundations ranked by grant-making.
View details
Giving Trends Top 100 Family Foundations 2015
This is the seventh edition of Family Foundation Giving Trends. It provides an update on annual charitable income and spending by the UK’s top 100 family foundations in 2013/2014, with details…
View details
We support UK foundations and grant-making charities
@ACFoundations
Catch up on our Foundations and Brexit series - 8 blogs looking at the potential impact on different funding areas acf.org.uk/news/
The eighth and final blog in our Foundations and Brexit series comes from @gerrysalole @The_EFC acf.org.uk/news/foundatio… #brexit
Funding the arts in Northern Ireland. What's the way forward? @ChangeTrust @arts_businessni @ArtsCouncilNI
acf.org.uk/news/funding-a…
© ACF 2015 -
2017. Acorn House, 314-320 Gray’s Inn Road, London,WC1X 8DP. Company Registration No: 5190466. Registered Charity No: 1105412
Privacy and cookies policy
Log in
Username
Password
Log in
Forgotten your password?
Register for an account
