BBC NEWS | UK | Football clubs reaching out to Asians
HomeNewsSportRadioTVWeatherLanguages
Low graphics|Accessibility help
One-Minute World News
News services
Your news when you want it
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
RELATED BBC SITES
SPORT
WEATHER
ON THIS DAY
EDITORS' BLOG
Last Updated: Sunday, 28 October 2007, 05:58 GMT
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Football clubs reaching out to Asians
By Niki Cardwell
BBC News
Luton Town hopes to see more British Asians in the terraces
An increasing number of football clubs are looking to local Asian communities to boost their falling attendances.
The British Asians in Football Forum says many smaller clubs see it as a way of raising both coffers and community relations.
"The penny's dropped with regards the potential of the Asian community," said Abdul "Butch" Fazal of the forum.
"We're a wealthy community and that brown pound counts. Most Asian football fans are second or third generation British. They're established, in good jobs and earning nice money."
And he added that unlike their parents or grandparents, football is not frowned upon.
Changing look
Luton Town Football Club chief executive John Mitchell believes clubs have neglected the potential of an Asian-British fan base and have work to do to spark interest in the game at a local level.
"There's no easy solution," he said.
"Over the years there has been a change in the local community that hasn't been recognised but now we want to do something about it."
He said Luton Town is working with local Asian business leaders, resident groups and children's football teams.
I've never really had the chance to go to live games, but since my boys have been playing all the family enjoy it much more and we've been looking to go to some matches.
Football dad Irtiza Shah
But Mr Fazal said the entire look of some clubs needs to change.
"Clubs are actually desperate now to get Asian players and spectators in, but they've got to change that under-representation in every strata of the game from administration to coaching to players, the lot."
'Racism remains'
Hamza Shah plays for an under-nines football team and his father says he is going to be an Asian David Beckham.
Along with six of his friends and three of their fathers, he recently saw his first proper football match, courtesy of Luton Town's outreach programme.
Hamza's dad, Syed, says the group loves football but have been put off in the past.
"Football should be a showcase for unification because everyone likes football," he said of the game's potential.
"A few years ago there weren't very many black players and now there are no Asians."
He said racism remains a reality in today's game.
Fans of the future are being invited to watch local football matches
"There does seem to be an elitism and inherent racism within the sport and you see that and your enthusiasm flags."
But Irtiza Shah, who was at the same match with his sons and nephews, says they are all keen to attend.
"I've never really had the chance to go to live games, but since my boys have been playing all the family enjoy it much more and we've been looking to go to some matches."
The Luton Town ground is in Bury Park, which is home to a large number of ethnic minority migrants.
Yet few seem loyal to the local club.
"I support Manchester United," said one resident of Kenilworth Road.
"My house is just next to the stadium and I park my car in their car park. I'm a bit ashamed. I really should go."
Other locals admitted to supporting Liverpool and Chelsea, but not the Hatters.
Luton is not the only club looking to fill its seats with a new generation of Asian fan.
Similar initiatives are being run at Bradford, Oldham, Blackburn, Leicester and others.
'Affordable fun'
West Bromwich Albion's owners believe part of the problem is the sport's image as an expensive outing.
This they put down to the reputation of the big earning, big spending Premier League clubs.
In order to send a message about the affordability of the local game, they've been training ethnic minority community coaches who go into schools wearing the club strip and teach football during lunch breaks.
The Hatters outreach programme helps bring in the uninitiated
Abdur Obeed is one of those coaches and on a recent playground visit, he was surrounded by dozens of children eager to play.
He mixed up a team of girls and boys and soon a boisterous game was under way, with a young girl in a head scarf emerging among the most enthusiastic .
"Lots of these kids have parents that are into football," said Mr Obeed.
"Their grandparents and their families probably weren't so keen but now they're supporting their children because they love football and that's why we're seeing more young Asians playing."
Eight-year-old Bilal Amar, one of the first-timers at a Luton match, sounds a positive note for the future of local Asian football support.
"I like Luton, they're a good team," he said.
"They've got some good talent. It's more exciting than the TV. I want to go again. I think my dad will say yes."
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
RELATED BBC LINKS
BBC football
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
Luton Town FC
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP UK STORIES
Major manhunt for Afghan soldier
Unemployment dips to 2.47 million
PM condemns sympathy for Moat
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
Most popular now, in detail
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
BBC News
BBC News
Deadly explosion near Colombia bullring
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 33,043 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC Copyright NoticeMMIX
Most Popular Now | 13,686 pages were read in the last minute.";
Back to top ^^
Help
Privacy and cookies policy
News sources
About the BBC
Contact us
Advertise with us
