Birmingham Against The Cuts
Birmingham Against The Cuts
Skip to content
HomeCutsAlternativesUpcoming EventsGet InvolvedAbout UsLocal GroupsAccessibilityResourcesDonate
← Older posts
by Birmingham Against The Cuts | February 19, 2017 · 5:24 pm
Birmingham TUC mini-bus to the Health Campaigns United/Peoples Assembly demo, Saturday 4th March, London
There are places on the Birmingham TUC minibus. You can get it at the Unite new offices, 6 Holt Court, North Heneage St West, B7 4AX at 8am. It then stops at Carrs Lane Church at 8.15am.
It’s £5 for waged £2 unwaged although if people are genuinely short of cash (including refugees) it will be free.
But you need to confirm with Stuart Richardson, BTUC Treasurer, by phone or email, to book a place.
Stuart Richardson: phone 0777 156 7496, email  ser14@btinternet.com
Leave a comment
Filed under Uncategorized
Image
The NHS Crisis and STPs – How Should Labour Respond? Public Meeting 7pm Wed 22 Feb
Leave a comment
by Birmingham Against The Cuts |
February 15, 2017 · 4:33 pm
by Birmingham Against The Cuts | February 15, 2017 · 7:24 am
Local Health Campaigns:
a report from Keep Our NHS Public Birmingham – and a public meeting on 22 February and the national demo on 4 March
STPs (“Sustainability & Transformation Plans”) – no further ‘engagement’ events in the Black Country to date (none at all in Birmingham!) so continued lack of consultation to proposed changes (and possible cuts) to NHS prevails. KONP is planning to ask a question at Full Council on 28th Feb. Continue reading →
Leave a comment
Filed under Uncategorized
by Birmingham Against The Cuts | February 8, 2017 · 10:50 am
Public campaign saves two libraries – but one to close and staff numbers cut
The campaign by Friends of the Libraries of Birmingham has been key to saving two libraries – Aston and Sutton Coldfield.
Extracts with thanks from Birmingham Post report by Neil Elkes, 7 February:
Two community libraries have been spared the axe but a third is in the firing line under revised plans from Birmingham council chiefs.
Plans to shut Aston Library have now been dropped entirely and Sutton Coldfield Library has been given a stay of execution until the end of August while talks to secure its long term future carry on.
Meanwhile the Kents Moat Library off The Meadway in Garretts Green will be closed and services transferred to the nearby Glebe Farm Farm library.
More than 2,000 people responded to plans to restructure Birmingham’s library service and cut £1.9 million from the budget during three months of consultation.
The threat to Sutton Coldfield Library prompted a 6,500 name petition and, crucial to its preservation, was a pledge of £150,000 funding from the Sutton Coldfield Town Council to keep it afloat.
Initial plans to shut Aston Library and beef up the nearby Birchfield facility have been scrapped entirely.
And, according to library bosses, residents suggested the closure of Kents Moat Library as part of the plan to regenerate the Poolway Shopping parade in which it is based.
It means that 36 out of 37 community libraries in Birmingham will remain open.
Further to the closures there will be increased spending on the book fund, up from £140,000 per year to £380,000 as well as investment in new technology and maintenance of facilities.
Staff numbers will be cut from 112 to 99 full time equivalent staff.
See Birmingham Post for libraries’ new hours at http://www.birminghampost.co.uk/news/regional-affairs/two-birmingham-libraries-been-saved-12565617?ptnr_rid=407789&icid=EM_BirminghamPost_Nletter_News_smallteaser_Text_Story7
Leave a comment
Filed under Uncategorized
Image
WMCA Mayor Hustings Tuesday 21 February 1-3pm West Brom Library – what will they do about public service cuts and lack of democracy?
Leave a comment
by Birmingham Against The Cuts |
February 2, 2017 · 1:38 pm
Image
Birmingham City Council Proposes Cutting Support Services to Vulnerable People – Join us in Victoria Square on 14th February 3 – 4.30pm
Leave a comment
by Birmingham Against The Cuts |
January 31, 2017 · 2:50 pm
by Birmingham Against The Cuts | January 31, 2017 · 12:54 pm
Challenge these claims that the WMCA will be controlled by
a presidential executive Mayor
Why it is important to challenge these attempts to assign monopoly power to the Mayor is that it is exactly what the government wants: to marginalise the role of elected councillors in the WMCA and to create an all-powerful executive presidential model of mayoral leadership.
Continue reading →
Leave a comment
Filed under Uncategorized
← Older posts
Search for:
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts.
Join 2,977 other followers
Poster Available:
Local GroupsLocal Groups
Erdington Against the Cuts
Kings Heath & Moseley Against the Cuts
Sparkhill & Springfield Against the Cuts
Stirchley & Cotteridge Against the Cuts
Stockland Green Against the Cuts
Handsworth Against the Cuts
Castle Vale Against The Cuts
Recent Posts
Birmingham TUC mini-bus to the Health Campaigns United/Peoples Assembly demo, Saturday 4th March, London
The NHS Crisis and STPs – How Should Labour Respond? Public Meeting 7pm Wed 22 Feb
Local Health Campaigns:
a report from Keep Our NHS Public Birmingham – and a public meeting on 22 February and the national demo on 4 March
Public campaign saves two libraries – but one to close and staff numbers cut
WMCA Mayor Hustings Tuesday 21 February 1-3pm West Brom Library – what will they do about public service cuts and lack of democracy?
ArchiveArchive
Twitter
Birmingham TUC mini-bus to the Health Campaigns United/Peoples Assembly demo, Saturday 4th March,@London
birminghamagainstthecuts.wordpress.com/2017/02/19/bir… 6 hours ago
The NHS Crisis and STPs – How Should Labour Respond? Wed 22 Feb 7pm
birminghamagainstthecuts.wordpress.com/2017/02/15/the… https://t.co/aETJEyoi0N 4 days ago
Local Health Campaigns:…
birminghamagainstthecuts.wordpress.com/2017/02/15/loc… 4 days ago
18th Sept
30th Nov
2011 Consultation Meetings
academies
action
Alternatives
ATL
ATOS
austerity fail
B14
B21
B23
B30
B31
bedroom tax
Birmingham City Council
CAB
Charles House
Children's Homes
connexions
cotteridge
council
council tax benefit
cuts
demonstration
DPAC
education
EHRC
erdington
False Economy
Feb 26th
GMB
Handsworth
housing benefit
hyperlocal
June 30th
Legal aid
Libraries
Mar 26
March 26th
mayday
may day
N30
NHS
Nov 30
NUT
occupation
pcs
pensions
petition
Police
privatisation
protest
Public Meeting
rally
refuse workers
report
resistance
Right to Work
Save our NHS
Save the NHS
schools
Social Security
solidarity
stirchley
strike
students
ucu
UK Uncut
unemployment
Unison
UNITE
Welfare Reforms
West Heath
workfare RSS - Posts
2011 in Pictures
Top Posts & Pages
Birmingham TUC mini-bus to the Health Campaigns United/Peoples Assembly demo, Saturday 4th March, London
Local Health Campaigns:
a report from Keep Our NHS Public Birmingham – and a public meeting on 22 February and the national demo on 4 March
Local Groups
A matter of trust! - the ‘spinning off’ of Birmingham’s Children’s social care
Act now to keep your Children’s Centre open!
Birmingham Against The Cuts ·
Blog at WordPress.com.
Birmingham Against The Cuts
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
