Health and WellBeing
blackpoppy | UK Health and Wellbeing
home
About
Eye Care
Fitness
Nutrition
Contact
Whether you're looking for a kickstart to that dreaded diet, need a few exercise tips or some health inspiration, UK Health and Wellbeing is here to help!
Keep healthy, look younger
Along with things you should be doing to stay fit and healthy, there are a few things you shouldn’t be doing. Drug addiction is fast becoming a problem in the UK and can have serious effects on your life. Avoid legal highs; more and more of these are being proven dangerous with disastrous side effects. Alcohol consumption should also be considered in your diet. consequatur
More on your health
Staying saves on problems later on in life
The guidelines for safe alcohol consumption are 2-3 units per day for a woman and 3-4 units per day for a man, exceeding these is not recommended. Just a few simple changes can have you feeling healthier and happier. The most important factors in maintaining a healthy lifestyle is to know your body and notice the warning signs of change. Regular exercise a healthy diet and positive mental attitude could make all the difference to your life, have you feeling less tired, grumpy and lethargic and have you ready and rearing to go. consequatur
View Portfolio
a few simple changes
Just a few simple changes can have you feeling healthier and happier. The most important factors in maintaining a healthy lifestyle is to know your body and notice the warning signs of change. Regular exercise a healthy diet and positive mental attitude could make all the difference to your life, have you feeling less tired, grumpy and lethargic and have you ready and rearing to go. consequatur
View Portfolio
Health and Activity
The secret to a long and happy life is in a
healthy and active lifestyle! No, that doesn’t mean you have to spend the rest
of your days chewing on carrot sticks, all it takes is being a little more
conscious to change your physical and mental wellbeing.
read more
Lifestyle
There are several aspects to leading a
healthy lifestyle, diet is important, obesity in UK men and women has risen by 10% in the last eight years, meaning a healthy diet is key.
Our bodies crave energy given to us by good foods in order to get through long
and tiresome days. Exercise is just as important, keeping active is not just
for diets but should be a regular feature of our lives, just half an hour’s
brisk walking three or four times a week will stop you feeling lethargic and is
much healthier than a mug of coffee!
read more
Mental Heath
Mental health is just
as important as physical health, try to avoid unnecessary stress and if you
feel things getting on top of you, speak to someone. Stress can have serious
and unnecessary health effects such as stroke or heart disease, regular
exercise and a decent diet can help to reduce these risks.
read more
UK Health and Wellbeing
Home Fitness
Mental Health
Related Links   News  Diet  About Us
Contact
Copyright protected © 2015 Black Poppy |
blackpoppy.org.uk | info@blackpoppy.org.uk |
Tweet
