Bluesmile - Helping Cambridge children lead happier lives
About us
Why We Are Needed
How We Help
People Involved
Schools
Work with us
Team Leaders
Clinical Placements
Voluntary Opportunities
Volunteer Mentoring
Work Opportunities
Fundraising
Ambassadors & Friends
Fundraising Ideas
How to Donate
e-news
Events
Personal Challenge
Events Listings
Corporate
Contact us
Nearly 4 children in every UK class are now likely to have a mental health difficulty - and the problem is growing.
It's also a little known fact that children's well-being in parts of Cambridgeshire is amongst the very worst in the country.
Without specialist support, vulnerable children can go on to develop mental illnesses and anti-social behaviours, which puts huge pressures on local services and costs our community dear.
Blue Smile is a Cambridgeshire children's charity which provides counselling and support in schools to help children fulfil their true potential and have happier childhoods.
It can quite simply be life-changing.
More >
School Head Teacher: "Observations of our pupils post therapy or mentoring shows that we have children who are able to maintain friendships ... They increase their social circle ... that impacts on their emotional wellbeing and their happiness levels, increases their chances of academic achievement, and increases their prospects for the future".
We are a British Association of Counselling and Psychotherapy Organisational Member www.bacp.co.uk
Blue Smile provides arts-based therapy and mentoring in schools to improve the mental health of pupils aged 3 to 13.
More >
We work in a number of Cambridgeshire schools and provide many opportunities for placements and career progression.
More >
Blue Smile helps companies build vital links with the local community and fulfil corporate social responsibilities while providing highly rewarding experiences.
More >
We are currently recruiting for
Outreach Associate Therapists
Consultant Supervisors
Volunteer Clinical Placements
and
Mentors
At a time of drastic service cuts, we rely on individual and corporate fundraising and donations.
Without this, children simply won't get the help they need to turn their lives around.
There are many fun ways to get involved which are not only personally satisfying but which make a vital contribution to the children in your local community. More >
Help us make a lifetime of difference to a vulnerable child by supporting Blue Smile's work today.
© Copyright 2011 Blue Smile Limited
Blue Smile, 47-51 Norfolk Street, Cambridge CB1 2LD - Registered Charity No. 1139279 - Registered Company No. 7411348
Home
Contact
