Brandon Trust: Services for people with learning disabilities and autism
Brandon Trust
Search
Donate
Menu
Home
Information and support
Looking for support
Children and families
Travel Buddy project
About learning disabilities
Personal safety
Hate crime
Video news
Our CQC ratings
Get involved
Become an ambassador
Fundraise with us
Our charity shops
Volunteering
Our Events
News
Get in touch
About us
Fundraise with us
Professionals
Jobs with us
Staff links
Decrease font size
Increase font size
Reset font size
Standard Contrast
High Contrast
Blue/Black Contrast
Cream/Black Contrast
About us
Fundraise with us
Professionals
Jobs with us
Staff links
Home
Welcome to Brandon Trust
Brandon Trust is a charity supporting adults and children with learning disabilities and autism. We believe that all people with learning disabilities should be able to live a life of freedom with fewer limitations. We work with people who can inspire and enable those we support to set themselves free so they can reach for their dreams and be all they can be.
Welcome to Brandon Trust
Brandon Trust is a charity supporting adults and children with learning disabilities and autism. We believe that all people with learning disabilities should be able to live a life of freedom with fewer limitations. We work with people who can inspire and enable those we support to set themselves free so they can reach for their dreams and be all they can be.
Welcome to Brandon Trust
Brandon Trust is a charity supporting adults and children with learning disabilities and autism. We believe that all people with learning disabilities should be able to live a life of freedom with fewer limitations. We work with people who can inspire and enable those we support to set themselves free so they can reach for their dreams and be all they can be.
Welcome to Brandon Trust
Brandon Trust is a charity supporting adults and children with learning disabilities and autism. We believe that all people with learning disabilities should be able to live a life of freedom with fewer limitations. We work with people who can inspire and enable those we support to set themselves free so they can reach for their dreams and be all they can be.
Looking for support
Jobs with us
Fundraise with us
Are you looking for an adrenaline-charged challenge?
Latest news and views
I want someone to love me for who I am
Research has shown that only 3% of people with a learning disability live as a …
Read the article 'I want someone to love me for who I am' in full
Brandon's Bristol cafe gets a makeover
Our Saint Stephen’s Café social enterprise is open for business again after hav…
Read the article 'Brandon's Bristol cafe gets a makeover' in full
Brandon Trust @BrandonTrust - 2 days ago
RT @CabotCircus: .@brandontrust are here to support #RandomActsOfKindnessDay too! Pay them a visit while you’re here to help spread some #k…
Follow us on Twitter
Newsletter Sign-up
Email
info@brandontrust.org
Telephone
0117 907 7200
Minicom
0117 931 5000
Brandon Trust on Instagram
Brandon Trust on Facebook
Brandon Trust on Twitter
Brandon Trust on YouTube
Brandon Trust on LinkedIn
Points of view
Accessibility
Privacy
Terms
Modern slavery statement
Sitemap
Copyright © 2010 - 2017 Brandon Trust
Registered Charity number: 801571 | VAT registered number: 108262925
Company registered in England and Wales: 2365487
Cookie Policy
Our website uses cookies to provide you with a better online experience.
If you continue to use our site without changing your browser settings,
we'll assume you are happy to receive cookies.
Please read our cookie policy for more information.
Accept
