Government talks with the unions - News stories - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
News story
Government talks with the unions
From:
Cabinet Office and The Rt Hon Lord Maude of Horsham
First published:
27 June 2011
Part of:
Civil service reform
This news article was published under
the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government
Minister for the Cabinet Office Francis Maude and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander have commented on meetings ahead of planned industrial action.
27 June 2011
Minister for the Cabinet Office Francis Maude and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander have commented on the meetings on 27 June ahead of the planned industrial action on 30 June.
They said:
Today’s meeting was constructive and was just one of a series of ongoing talks the government has committed to with the TUC on public service pensions; further meetings have been scheduled for July. This is a genuine consultation to which we are committed in order to try and agree a way forward with the unions, including on how to implement the changes on contributions set out in the Spending Review.
“We believe both sides have a responsibility to see the talks through and we would urge public workers not to strike while they are ongoing.
“Public service pensions will still be among the very best, with a guaranteed pension which very few private sector staff now enjoy. We are proposing they will be paid later because people live longer, and that public sector staff will pay more, for a fairer balance between what they pay and what other taxpayers pay.
“We recognise that the funding basis for the Local Government Pension Scheme is different. There are important implications for how the contributions and benefits interact, as both Lord Hutton and the Unions have set out. On that basis, we have agreed to have a more in depth discussion with local government unions and the TUC about how we take these factors into account.
“While the talks are ongoing it is obviously disappointing that some unions have decided on industrial action. But what the recent ballot results show is that there is extremely limited support for the kind of strike action union leaders are calling for. Less than 10% of the Civil Service workforce has voted for strike actions and only about a third of teachers.
“We can assure the public now that we have rigorous contingency plans in place to ensure that their essential services are maintained during the strike action on Thursday.
Share this page
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Published:
27 June 2011
From:
Cabinet Office
The Rt Hon Lord Maude of Horsham
Part of:
Civil service reform
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
