Statement from Francis Maude on PCS ballot - News stories - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
News story
Statement from Francis Maude on PCS ballot
From:
Cabinet Office and The Rt Hon Lord Maude of Horsham
First published:
15 June 2011
Part of:
Civil service reform
This news article was published under
the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government
Statement from Minister for the Cabinet Office, Francis Maude, on the result of the PCS ballot.
Statement from Minister for the Cabinet Office, Francis Maude, on the result of the PCS ballot.
The Minister for the Cabinet Office, Francis Maude, said:
What today’s ballot result shows is that among PCS members there is extremely limited support for the kind of strike action their leaders want.  There was a very low turnout for this ballot and less than 20% of their members are supporting this unnecessary industrial action.
“This is not surprising given that talks with the TUC about public sector pensions are continuing; there is no justification for any civil servant going on strikes while discussions are continuing.
“There is cross party consensus that public sector pensions need to be made fairer and more sustainable. That is what former Minister John Hutton’s report recommended and that is what we are trying to achieve.
“Public sector pensions will remain among the very best, providing a guaranteed pension level for all employees. Today very few private sector employers still offer guaranteed pension levels.
“But people today are living much longer. So Lord Hutton recommended that people should work for longer before drawing their pension.
“And we’re asking employees to pay more towards the cost of their pension. This makes for a fairer balance between what employees pay and what other taxpayers have to pay.
“We continue to hope that industrial action will not take place, but in the unfortunate event that it does we can assure the public now that all services have highly developed and rigorous contingency plans.
Share this page
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Published:
15 June 2011
From:
Cabinet Office
The Rt Hon Lord Maude of Horsham
Part of:
Civil service reform
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
