Homepage - Helping people stay independent
Home    |    About Us    |    Professional Referrals    |    Contact    |    Job Vacancies    |    30th Anniversary
Governance
Awards
Funders
Select a page:
Home
About Us
·  Governance
·  Awards
·  Funders
Professional Referrals
Contact
Job Vacancies
30th Anniversary
01954 211919
admin@care-network.org.uk
Need Help Now?Practical HelpInformation & AdviceLocal GroupsStoriesEventsVolunteerGet Involved
District Coordinators
Home Safe and Sound
District Coordinators
Community Development Officers
Community Car Schemes
Healthy Fenland Community Development
Volunteer
Donate
Publications
Newsletters
Have your say
Useful Links
Select a page:
Need Help Now?
Practical Help
·  District Coordinators
·  Home Safe And Sound
Information & Advice
·  District Coordinators
Local Groups
·  Community Development Officers
·  Community Car Schemes
·  Healthy Fenland Community Development
Stories
Events
Volunteer
Get Involved
·  Volunteer
·  Donate
·  Publications
·  Newsletters
·  Have Your Say
·  Useful Links
Helping people to stay healthy, independent and to keep in touch with their community
Care Network provides help for older, isolated and vulnerable people living in Cambridgeshire - enabling them to remain independent and maintain social contact with friends and the community.  We equip, encourage and enable volunteers to support local people to lead a happy, healthy and independent life.
PRACTICAL HELP
Practical and emotional support for people discharged from hospital or living at home with an illness.
INFORMATION & ADVICE
Local volunteers helping link people with local activities and services to keep them connected with their community.
LOCAL GROUPS
Helping to set up and sustain local groups that assist people to maintain social interaction and independence.
Who we are in 3 minutes
DEMENTIA FRIENDS - An INTRODUCTION
When: 16th March 2017, 10 - 11am
Where: Meeting Room, Care Network, Head Office, 18 Broadway House, 149-151 St Neots Road, CB23 7XR
For more details see our Events Page
Relaxation, Meditation and Music
Do you live in St Neots?
Do you need to relax?
Can you get to the Community Room in the Barford Road Tesco 3:10-4:00pm on a Wednesday?
Then this group is for you, the new Relaxation, Meditation and Music Group meet alternate Wednesdays, next one Wednesday 15th February.
Tweets by @CareNetworkCamb
Care Network gave me phone numbers and leaflets about places and things I might need and explained everything. I can’t praise them enough. In fact, I’m astounded there’s a whole Care Network thing. I’ve got to 82 without knowing it
Care Network Cambridgeshire is a registered charity No. 1120693 and company limited by guarantee No.6297277.
Registered address: 18 Broadway House, 149-151 St Neots Rd, Hardwick, Cambridge CB23 7QJ
Tel: 01954 211919   |   Email: admin@care-network.org.uk
Website by Catfish Web Design Cambridge
Cookies may have been placed on your computer to make this website better. Click here to change your cookie settings, otherwise we'll assume you're OK to continue.
