Appeal to the Care Standards Tribunal - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
Home
Guidance
Appeal to the Care Standards Tribunal
From:
HM Courts & Tribunals Service
First published:
17 December 2014
Applies to:
England and Wales
How to appeal if you're excluded, removed or suspended from a register to work with or care for children or vulnerable adults.
Contents
What you can appeal against
The tribunal
Time limits for appealing
How to appeal
Emergency cases
Help and advice
How your case will be decided
The hearing
Appeal against the decision
If the tribunal made a mistake
Previous decisions
Legislation and rules
What you can appeal against
You can appeal to a tribunal if you are:
a child minder, carer or day care provider
a social worker or social care worker in Wales
Or if you run:
a children’s home
a childminder agency
a care home
a residential family centre
a care agency that visits people’s homes
a nurses agency
a fostering or voluntary adoption agency
an independent hospital, clinic or medical agency
a doctor’s or dentist’s practice
an independent school
licensed NHS services
You can also appeal against a health or education department decision to:
include you on the protection of children or vulnerable adults lists
ban you from teaching or working with children
Find out how to appeal against a Disclosure and Barring Service decision to add you to a banned list.
The tribunal
Your case will be dealt with by a tribunal known as the First-tier Tribunal (Care Standards).
The tribunal is independent of the government, and will listen to both sides of the argument before reaching its decision.
Time limits for appealing
You must appeal within a certain amount of time after the date of the decision.
Organisation
Type of decision
Time limit
Care Quality Commission
any decision
28 days
Department for Education
independent school register: cancellation or conditions
28 days
Department for Education
independent school register: proposed order
28 days
Department for Education
protection of children list
3 months
Department of Health
protection of vulnerable adults list
3 months
Department of Health
barred from working with children
3 months
Monitor
licence to provide NHS services
28 days
Ofsted or Welsh Government
refusal to register
3 months
Ofsted or Welsh Government
cancelled registration
28 days
Ofsted
emergency suspension
10 days
If you have missed the time limit, give as much detail as you can to explain why.
The tribunal will decide if your appeal can go ahead. It may not be able to consider your case if it’s late.
How to appeal
Use the relevant form and guidance leaflet.
You must complete the whole form and attach a copy of the decision you are appealing against.
Email this to cst@hmcts.gsi.gov.uk or send it to:
Care Standards Tribunal
HM Courts and Tribunals Service
1st Floor
Darlington Magistrates' Court
Parkgate
DL1 1RU
Telephone: 01325 289 350
Fax: 01264 785 013
Emergency cases
You must also send a copy of the form to the regulator if your case is urgent, eg:
your registration is suddenly cancelled or suspended
emergency restrictions are placed on your independent school
You can find the correct address on the letter from the regulator.
These cases will be dealt with much faster than normal appeals.
Contact the tribunal if you don’t know whether your case is an emergency.
Help and advice
You may be able to get advice from:
Citizens Advice
your trade union
a professional association (eg the British Association of Social Workers)
The tribunal can help you complete the application form, but cannot give you legal advice.
How your case will be decided
The tribunal will arrange a conference call with you, the judge and the regulator, to discuss what steps you need to take before the hearing. This is called a telephone case management hearing.
During the call, you’ll usually decide when to:
exchange documents and witness statements
put together the papers for the hearing (the ‘bundle’)
Find out more about witness statements and bundles.
The judge will set a date and time for the hearing. The details will also be added to the list of hearings.
You can also ask the judge any questions about the process, or what to expect at the hearing.
The hearing
The tribunal will try to hold the hearing at a court or tribunal building near your home address.
It will be attended by:
a judge and 2 specialist members of the tribunal with professional experience
a clerk or usher
a lawyer from the regulator
your lawyer or other representative (if you have one)
witnesses for both parties
Members of the public can usually attend the hearing.
You will be given a chance to:
present your case to the tribunal
call witnesses to give evidence
highlight any important points at the end
The tribunal will write to you explaining its decision within 10 days of the hearing.
Appeal against the decision
If you think the tribunal made a mistake in the way it interpreted or applied the law, you can ask for permission to appeal.
Get legal advice from a solicitor if you need help.
Find out more about appealing to the Upper Tribunal.
If the tribunal made a mistake
You can challenge the decision if there was a mistake in the way the case was handled (eg you weren’t sent important documents).
To do this, fill in the application to set aside a decision form.
You must apply within 28 days of receiving the decision.
Previous decisions
You can search the Care Standards Tribunal decisions database to find about decisions in previous cases.
Legislation and rules
Read detailed rules on how appeals are handled in the Health, Education and Social Care Chamber procedure rules.
You can find the right to appeal to the tribunal in the following acts and regulations:
School Standards and Framework Act 1988
Children Act 1989
Protection of Children Act 1999
Care Standards Act 2000
Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000
Education Act 2002
Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003
The Child Minding and Day Care (Suspension of Registration) (England) Regulations 2003
The Education (Prohibition from Teaching or Working with Children) Regulations 2003
The Education (Prohibition from Teaching or Working with Children) (Amendment) Regulations 2004
The Day Care and Child Minding (Disqualification) (England) Regulations 2005
The Tax Credits (Approval of Home Child Care Providers) Scheme 2003
Contents
Document information
Published:
17 December 2014
From:
HM Courts & Tribunals Service
Related guides:
Care standards tribunal hearing list
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
