CFG - Charity Finance Group
Skip to content
Cookie LawJoin nowContact us
Phone: 0845 345 3192
Site Search
Search Site
MEMBER LOGIN
About us
Membership
News
Policy
Events & Training
Jobs
Corporate Partners
Resources
Charity
Finance
Group
Inspiring the development of a financially confident, dynamic, and trustworthy charity sector.
Why join?
Are you juggling the challenge of managing your charity’s finances and finding time for strategic thinking? Keen to access well-priced training for you and your staff? Need advice and support on best practice and regular updates on emerging regulation? CFG membership may be the solution for you.
Join over 1350 member charities
Member login
CFG Blog
CFG latest
Just announced: CFG’s Annual Conference returns to the QEII Centre in London on 18 May 2017! The conference is the must-attend event of the year for all finance professionals working in the charity sector – book now!
CFG has now launched its  Small Charities Finance Programme for England and Wales, supported by the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation and in partnership with Small Charities Coalition and NAVCA.
Find out more about Community Accountants National Network which provides specialised financial services for small charities across England and Wales. You can also find out more information about CFGs’  Community Accountants Special Interest Group Community Accountants Special Interest Group and free downloadable resources.
Policy
Latest policy updates
20/08/16 CFG responds to LGPS consultationCFG has responded to the Department for Communities and Local Government’s (DCLG) consultation on draft changes to the Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2013 (SI/2356), and the Local Government Pension Scheme (Transitional Provisions, Savings and Amendment) Regulations 2014 (SI/525).
Economic Outlook Briefings
28/04/2016: Our April 2016 bulletin is now available.It includes an analysis of the 2016 budget, as well as economic trends and trajectories, and what these mean for charities.
Events
Economic Crime Conference 2017
CFG's Economic Crime Conference is a new addition to our event calendar and will explore some of the concerns in the charity sector around economic crime. The conference will give delegates an increased awareness of the vast landscape of economic crime and some ideas for tackling it and it’s various forms. Book now!
Finance Function - New Times, New Challenges
As more challenges arise and more regulations are put in place, charities are having to change the way they use their finance functions to survive in the current climate.
Delegates will gain an understanding of how the finance function needs to evolve, how you can react to changes in the future and how to use scenario planning to cope with the changes. Book now.
Jobs
News
8 February 2017
Spring Statement 2017
Charity Finance Group, in partnership with eight other voluntary sector bodies have written to the Chancellor ahead of the Spring Budget on 8th March.
10 October 2016
VCSE Autumn Statement Proposals 2016
Charity Finance Group, along with nine other voluntary sector bodies, has written to the Chancellor ahead of the Autumn Statement on 23rd November.
Document Library
Most popular
CRM Implementation
Upload Date: May 2011
The Tax Implications of Charity Trading
Upload Date: May 2011
Principles into Practice: How charities and social enterprises communicate impact
Upload Date: March 2012
Latest documents
NGO Project Partner Due Dilligence Checklist
Upload Date: February 2017
NGO Overhead Recovery Checklist
Upload Date: February 2017
Go, No Go Checklist
Upload Date: February 2017
All Resources
About us
Who's who
Our history
How we are governed
Vacancies at CFG
Become a CFG Trustee
How we decide how much to pay our staff
Adrian Randall Challenge Prize 2015
Annual Reports
Contact us
CFG newsletters
Complaints Policy
Membership
What we do for the sector
Why join?
Join now
Membership renewal
Special interest groups and forums
Current Charity Directory
Finance Focus taster
News
Press releases
Press Release Archive
Factsheets for journalists
Policy
Latest policy updates
Have your say
Banking and Social Investment
Finance, accounting and regulation
Pensions
Public services
Tax and VAT
Policy Archive
Events & Training
Events calendar
In House Training
Training courses
Small Charities Programme
SORP training
SORP Consultations
Annual Conference
Speaking Opportunities
Community Accounting Conference
Impact Conference
Investment Conference
IT Conference
Large Charities Conference
Managing Performance and Change Conference
Midlands Conference
Northern Conference
Risk and Fraud Conference
South West & Wales Conference
Tax Conference
Economic Crime Conference
Half-day Conferences
Members' meetings
Annual Dinner
Special Interest Groups Events
Jobs
Advertising with us
Jobs Board
Vacancies at CFG
Corporate Partners
Become a Subscriber
Get involved
Our Subscribers
Our Charity membership
Resources
Publications
Document library
Factsheets for journalists
Finance Focus - the magazine for CFG members
Small Charities Finance Programme
Community Accounting Network
Continuing Professional Development
Helplines
Member search
Finance Count
Terms & ConditionsData ProtectionSitemapStaff Email
© Charity Finance Group / © Charities Resource Network / Registered Office: 15-18 White Lion Street, London, N1 9PG.
A Company Limited by Guarantee. Registered in England No. 3182826, Registered Charity No. 1054914, Registered VAT No. 945 6038 09.
