ISSN 1753-0849
Childhoods Today
An online journal for childhood studies
Home
Current Issue
Past Issues
For Authors
For Reviewers
Editorial Policy
Editorial Board
Contact
Search this site:
Childhoods Today is free! Read our open access policy
Childhoods Today is an externally reviewed bi-annual e-journal published by the
Centre for the Study of Childhood and Youth at the University of Sheffield (UK), and supported by the Worldwide Universities Network. It is an open access journal, and no subscription is required to access the articles, which are published in .pdf format. These can be read using the Adobe Reader, which can be downloaded free of charge.
The aim of the journal is to provide an international forum designed exclusively for the publication of articles by postgraduate students (i.e. those studying for the MA, M.Phil. or PhD), as well as those who have recently (within two years) completed their PhDs in the field of childhood studies, which can then be accessed by other postgraduates and academics working in the field.
First published in 2007, the journal has already achieved a high level of
International recognition and received an endorsement from Childwatch International.
The website has had in excess of 200,000 visits from all over the world.
It is also archived by the British Library.
Childhoods Today was founded by Professor Adrian L. James of the University of Sheffield and the Norwegian Centre for Child Research (NOSEB), University of Trondheim. It is currently edited by Afua Twum-Danso Imoh and Lisa Procter of the University of Sheffield.
Please note: Childhoods Today is no longer accepting submissions. CSCY has come to the conclusion that the online journal is no longer meeting the needs of UK postgraduate research students who are increasingly required to submit to particular journals that fit more readily with the requirements of the UK's Research Excellence Framework. As the majority of the submissions now received come from overseas students it is our hope that CSCY will be able to find an alternative home for the journal. If there is any interest information will be posted on the CSCY website - www.sheffield.ac.uk/cscy.
Apologies for any inconvenience.
All content © Copyright 2006 University of Sheffield. All rights reserved. Contact:
Standards compliant website by the Electric Druid.
