UK charity fighting global poverty | Christian Aid
Skip to main content
Global navigation
Policy & practice
Christian Aid Week
Churches
Schools
Media
Jobs
Search
Search
Donate now
Main navigation
About us
What we do
Emergencies
Hurricane Matthew Appeal
Church resources
Iraq crisis
Church resources
Malawi food crisis
Nepal earthquake
Nepal Aftershocks
Nigeria Crisis Appeal
Refugee crisis
Church resources
South Sudan crisis
Church resources
Syria crisis
Church resources
Yemen Crisis Appeal
Our approach to emergencies
Past emergencies
Act now!
Get involved
Give money
Menu
Christian Aid fights poverty, because everyone should have the opportunity to thrive
We work in partnership with churches, individuals and local organisations in communities worldwide, supporting people of all faiths and none to rise out of poverty.
Help us continue this life-changing work.
Donate
How can you help?
There are many ways to get involved, either individually or with your church.
Nigeria Crisis Appeal
On-going terrorist attacks have displaced almost two million people in Nigeria. Help us provide food, water and shelter to families fleeing conflict.
The Big Shift
Join the next phase of the Big Shift campaign – ask your bank to help combat climate change by moving our money out of fossil fuels.
Lent and Easter resources
Download or order our Count Your Blessings Lent calendar, plus download resources for Lent Lunch and Shrove Tuesday.
Where your money goes
This year support from people like you has helped millions of people in 39 countries.
More information about how we spend money
Help us change the world
It won't be easy, but we will keep going until everyone is free from poverty and inequality. You can help with a donation.
Donate
Sign up for email updates about Christian Aid’s work
First name
Last name
Your email address
X
What do you think of this page? Help us to improve.
About Christian Aid
We have more than 70 years’ experience of working in partnership to support communities to thrive. We tackle the root causes of poverty so that women, men and children the world over are strengthened against future knocks. And if disasters happen, we get people the help they want straight away.
Read about our aims and values
How can you help?
Donate
Trying to contact us?
General enquiries
Regional offices
Press and media
Feedback on our website
What would you like to do today?
Footer Sitemap
Find out who we are, our goals and finances
Discover where we work and the issues we work on
Support an emergency appeal
Help us tackle tax dodging
Support our climate change campaign
Take part in fundraising and events
Find out what is going on near you
See the different ways you can donate
Download prayers and resources to use in your church
Are you looking for one of our other sites?
Christian Aid Collective
Christian Aid Ireland
Christian Aid Scotland
Christian Aid Wales
Learn – teaching resources
Present Aid
Programme policy & practice
Follow us
Your browser does not support SVG
Your browser does not support SVG
Your browser does not support SVG
Your browser does not support SVG
Footer menu
Contact us
Copyright
Privacy & Cookies
Terms & Conditions
England and Wales charity no. 1105851 Scotland charity no. SC039150 UK company no. 5171525 Christian Aid Ireland: NI charity no. NIC101631 company no. NI059154 and ROI charity no. 20014162 company no. 426928. The Christian Aid name and logo are trademarks of Christian Aid. Christian Aid is a key member of ACT Alliance. © Christian Aid
