Civil Service - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
Civil Service
Working for the Civil Service
A Brilliant Civil Service
Find a learning opportunity
Civil Service Leaders' blog
Civil Service blog
9 February 2017 — Blog post
The future of digital government
Government Digital Service Director General Kevin Cunnington sets out the next steps in creating digital government and modern public services.
2 February 2017 — Blog post
The State of the Estate
Chief Executive of the Civil Service John Manzoni welcomes the progress in increasing the efficiency and sustainability of property in the...
6 February 2017 — Blog post
Celebrating LGBT History Month
Sue Owen marks the start of the annual celebration of progress in eradicating prejudice towards the LGBT community.
3 February 2017 — Blog post
The Workplace Adjustment Passport – Ian’s story
The third in a series of first-person experiences of the Workplace Adjustment Passport in action.
27 January 2017 — Blog post
The Civil Service – adapting to the challenge of the times
Sir Jeremy Heywood responds to a report from the Institute for Government.
27 January 2017 — Blog post
Shaping the future of the Civil Service
Civil Service Chief People Officer Rupert McNeil considers some of the factors that will form the future leaders of the organisation.
Latest
Government Economic Service: summer vacation placement job descriptions
updated
13 February 2017
Form
Election guidance for civil servants
updated
26 January 2017
Guidance
The Civil Service Apprenticeship Strategy
published
25 January 2017
Policy paper
Get updates to this list
email feed
Copy and paste this URL in to your feed reader
See all
What we do
The Civil Service helps the government of the day develop and implement its policies as effectively as possible.
Read more about what we do
Follow us
Connect with the Civil Service on Twitter
Connect with the Civil Service on YouTube
Connect with the Civil Service on Civil Service blog
Connect with the Civil Service on Civil Service Leaders' blog
Connect with the Civil Service on UK Civil Service on Flickr
Meet some of our diversity & inclusion champions
Sue Owen
Sue Owen is the Permanent Secretary for the Department for Culture, Media & Sport and the Civil Service Diversity & Inclusion Champion and LGB&TI Champion.
Read Sue's blogs
Jon Thompson
Since June 2015, Jon has been the Civil Service Social Mobility Champion.He was appointed Chief Executive and Permanent Secretary of HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in April 2016 after more than three years as Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
Read Jon's blogs
Richard Heaton
Richard Heaton became the Civil Service Race Champion in April 2014.He has been Permanent Secretary for MOJ since August 2015. Before that he was Permanent Secretary for the Cabinet Office (from August 2012).
Read Richard's blogs
Civil Service Diversity & Inclusion
The Civil Service is a modern and diverse workplace, committed to promoting and ensuring equality and valuing diversity. Read more about our work on our blog.
Find out more about our work on Diversity & Inclusion
Civil Service Learning
Civil Service Learning provides courses and resources for developing skills common to all UK civil servants in all Civil Service roles.
Log in to find e-learning, online resources and classroom courses to support your Civil Service career
Civil Service Pensions
This is for current and prospective members of the Civil Service pension arrangements. It also contains links to information for past members who are not yet receiving their pension.There are also links for pensioners who are already receiving their Civil Service pension.
Civil Service pensions website
What shape expert are you?
A short film explaining what being a T-shaped expert means, and why it's important to the future of the Civil Service.
Watch the film
'A Brilliant Civil Service'
The vision of the Civil Service of the future.
See the vision
Contact the Civil Service
Media enquiries
Propriety and Civil Service
020 7276 0102
General enquiries
Communications team
70 Whitehall
London
SW1A 2AS
Email
civilservice@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk
General enquiries
020 7276 1234
Equality and diversity
Working for the Civil Service
About us
Our governance
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
