Home | Mental Health Foundation
Skip to main content
Good mental health for all
View our work in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
Search form
Search
Our Work
Get Involved
Your Mental Health
Publications
Newsletter
Donate
Dedicated to finding and addressing the sources of mental health problems
Mental health A-Z guide
How to look after your mental health
Featured
Tell us what you think about our website
Take our very short survey to let us know what you think about our site. You could win 1 of 10 mindfulness courses.
Support and Research for Good Mental Health
Research
Social media: good or bad for mental health?
Social media isn't going away. But is it a friend or a foe with regards mental health? Una Foye looks at the evidence.
Blog
Psychologically informed support for homeless people: what it means and why it’s crucial
What are psychologically informed environments? What is an uninformed environment? Why are informed environments essential?
Get Involved
I'm Fine
When people ask how we are, we often reply with "I'm fine", even when we're not. Our new campaign challenges that.
Projects
Peer Education Project (PEP)
An ambitious pilot scheme aimed at ensuring every school identifies and implements better practice to safeguard children’s mental health.
Events
Great North Run
10 September 2017
Legacies
Leave a legacy
Legacies are an important source of income for us. See how to leave a gift in your will.
Do you need urgent help?
If your mental or emotional state quickly gets worse, or you're worried about someone you know - help is available.
You're not alone; talk to someone you trust. Sharing a problem is often the first step to recovery.
Follow us
Stay up to date and show your support by following us on a variety of social channels
Sign up for our newsletter
You’ll also get our monthly newsletter, occasional bulletins and information about how you can support our work.
Email Address *
First Name *
Last Name *
Home
About us
News
Blogs
Contact us
Jobs
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Privacy policy
Mental Health Foundation
Copyright © 2017. All Rights Reserved
Registered Charity No. England 801130
Scotland SC 039714/Company Registration No. 2350846
Web design and build by Headscape
