Consortium for Street Children -
About
Our Work
CSC Network
News
Contact
Donate
How many street children are there in the world?1 million10 million100 million
This iframe contains the logic required to handle AJAX powered Gravity Forms.
The Consortium for Street Children (CSC) is a global network that raises street children’s voices, promotes their rights and improves their lives. We do this through our focus on advocacy, research and network development.
What's new?
Our CEO’s moving story on BBC Radio 4 ‘Four Thought’Our CEO, Dr Sarah Thomas de Benitez survived the Mexico City earthquake when she was a young diplomat. Continue reading
updatePolice are murdering street children in EldoretPolice brutality against street children is not a new issue. A recent horrifying attack on street children in Eldoret, Kenya, by local and paramilitary police units has sparked for calls for the Director of Public Prosecutions to investigate.
Continue reading
updateStudent donates 3000 Swiss Francs to CSCWe’d like to give a gigantic thank you to Minami, a student in Switzerland, for donating 3000 Swiss Francs to us.
Continue reading
Get involved
Resource Centre Visit the world's largest online collection of publications and research reports on street children.
Demand a Day Join thousands of others and sign our petition calling for a UN recognised day for street children.
Social media
Join our growing community of supporters on social media – follow us on Twitter or like us on Facebook.
Donate You can make a vital difference to our work and help improve the lives of street children around the world.
Our network
We have over 80 members including:
Become a Member
View all Members
Member spotlight
Laughter Africa works with street children to fulfil their aspirations and to help them to bring about positive change in their lives in the following ways:
(1) By trying to trace the street children’s families in the hope that they can be reunited with their family.
Continue reading
Contact Details Development House
56-64 Leonard Street
London
EC2A 4LT, UK
+44(0)207 549 0218
info@streetchildren.org
Legal Stuff Registered Charity 1046579
Company Reg. No 03040697
International Day for Street Children The International Day for Street Children is celebrated on April 12th. Every year hundreds of events and activities take place across the globe. Find out more about the day and what will be happening this year.
Visit site
Also Find Us On
Kindly supported by
CSC is an ECOSOC accredited organisation
© 2017 Consortium for Street Children. All rights reserved. Terms & conditions | Privacy & cookies
A Hands Up project
