Linking Cornwall -
Skip to content
Linking Cornwall
Primary Menu
How to Protect The Tooth Enamel?
Posted on January 7, 2017 by admin
Teeth are covered by a strong layer of enamel and it plays a very big role in protecting teeth from decay as well as discomfort. Even though the enamel is one of the hardest substances in the human body, it is also very fragile. There are several things that can cause it to wear out including sugary foods and rough brushing. For the reason that your enamel is irreplaceable, the best option is to protect it and prevent its loss. Below are some tips to help you by the best orthodontists London.
Stay away from soda
As sweet as soda tastes, it is not healthy for your teeth, especially if taken too regularly. Sodas are normally full of sugar and this sugar contributes in the production of decay causing bacteria. This goes for unsweetened and fizzy drinks as well because their acid is also bad for the enamel.
Go dairy;
Just as there are foods that will wear down your enamel, there are those that will build it stronger. Dairy products as cheese will protect your enamel in two different ways. First, when you eat cheese, you will produce more saliva, which helps wash away the acidic residue left after a meal. The calcium and phosphate found in dairy products help rematerialize weak enamel as well.
Brush gently
Remember you need to be gentle when you brush your teeth or simply use a softer toothbrush. You should also brush twice daily but should wait at least 30 minutes after meals before brushing.
Chew gum after meals
This will help to stimulate the flow of saliva and it will wash away the acid, protecting your enamel from plaque. It is best you choose a sugar free gum.
What is Tooth Enamel?
Get dental regular checkups
Working with your dentist is one of the best ways you can protect your enamel and your oral health in general. An orthodontist will detect that you have erosion, and they will advice you on the best course of action. You can check out this site if you are in need of a dental appointment. http://www.angelorthodontics.co.uk/blog
Posted in Healthy Life
EHIC: European Health Insurance Card Explained – 2016 Edition
Posted on August 23, 2016October 20, 2016 by admin
Health insurance is a great way of ensuring you will always get healthcare even in times of emergencies. In 2006 the European Health Insurance Card was introduced replacing the traditional E111.The EHIC is a free card that is offered to UK residents and residents of member countries represented by the European Union. It is available to citizens who are over 18 years of age. Minors living with their parents can also access the card if their parents apply on their behalf. One needs to provide their full names, address, National Health Service number and date of birth.
If you are traveling, you can use the card for medical healthcare as long as the country you are visiting is a member sate of the European Economic Area. This makes it easy for tourists visiting the UK to have peace of mind as they visit these countries. The European Health Insurance Card covers all medical treatment you receive during your visit including accidents. It also includes treatment for chronic conditions and maternity care. The card is not valid if you have moved abroad to live or for further studies. Everyone who is over 18 and currently citizens of UK and are covered by the National Health Service can apply for the card. The card does not replace the functions of travel insurance so make sure you have both of these documents before you travel abroad.
Having in possession a valid European Health Insurance Card has many benefits. Here are just a few of these;
Peace of be mind; sickness can be an expensive ordeal especially if you are treating chronic conditions like liver diseases. Therefore, having this card will give you peace of mind as you travel. Remember accidents may occur and you may not be prepared to face the financial burden of dealing with an emergency situation.
Convenience; If you have to visit another country you can still get the medical care you need as long as you have the card with you and it has not expired. Basic medical care while visiting the EU country will be covered.
Flexibility; even a child can still get the medical care if you apply on his behalf if they are below years. All you need is to fill in the details of the child including their full names date of birth and address. You can also use your application form to apply for your partner. So there I great flexibility in acquiring this card.
Covered expenses; there are instances will cater for all of yourmedical expenses if you produce the card. In other cases, you will need to foot half of the bill. In all cases, you are saved a lot of trouble as opposed to going to a hospital without an insurance cover.
Quick renewal process; the card expires after every 5 years, but the good aspect of it is that you can renew your European Health Insurance Card 6 months before this date. The process is quick an efficient so you always remain with a valid EHIC card. If you are already having once and want to renew your EHIC, see more details on this EHIC Facebook page.
Posted in Uncategorized
What your mouth says about your health
Posted on June 2, 2016June 2, 2016 by admin
Your mouth holds clues to your overall health and looking out for any changes in your oral health can help manage certain conditions. Your mouth is full of harmless bacteria, however with poor hygiene habits you can suffer from tooth decay and gum disease.
Certain medications like antihistamines, pain killers and diuretics can reduce saliva flow which is important in washing away food and neutralizing acids produced by bacteria in the mouth.
So what does your mouth say about your health?
Cardio vascular disease – Some research indicates that heart disease might be linked to the inflammation and infections oral bacteria can cause.
Endocarditis – This is an infection of the inner lining of the heart. It occurs when bacteria and germs from other parts of your body such as the mouth spread through the blood stream and attach to damaged areas in your heart which is why it is important to prevent and treat any oral infections immediately they occur
Diabetes – Having diabetes reduces the body’s resistance to infection, putting the gums are risk. Gum disease is more frequent and severe among diabetes patients.
Osteoporosis – This is a disease which causes bones to become weak and can break easily. Drugs used to treat the disease have a slight chance of damaging jaw bones.
Alzheimer’s disease – As the disease progresses, it is observed that oral health deteriorates as well.
There is a connection between periodontitis; a severe form of gum disease and diabetes and HIV/AIDS. This is because the disease occurs when the body’s resistance to infections is low.
Having good oral hygiene means you have a healthy mouth. This means that there is the absence of bad breath, gums are pink and there is no bleeding after brushing or flossing. You only have one set of teeth and gums so treat them like with great care.
Cancer – With the growing rate of people diagnosed with cancer, about 20% of them have one form of oral health complications resulting from chemotherapy and radiation treatment. Battling cancer takes a toll on one’s health so it is just as important to take care of one’s oral health.
Prevention tips by dentist Islington
Brush your teeth at least twice a day with fluoride toothpaste
Floss daily
Eat a healthy diet and limit snacks taken in between meals
Replace your toothbrush once the bristles fray or every 3 – 4 months
Schedule regular checkups and cleaning sessions
Contact your dentist as soon as any oral health problem arises.
Conclusion
For more on what your mouth says about your healthy, visit the dental hygienist in London
See more on Dental tips on Facebook
Posted in Healthy Life
Orthodontic Treatment Is No Longer Just For Kids
Posted on March 10, 2016January 7, 2017 by admin
For so long now, orthodontic treatment has been associated with kids; even today, adults are not fully aware of the various orthodontic treatment options available for them. Understandably, the orthodontic treatment of yester years was almost crude and intrusive, to say the least. It was characterized by large metal braces that were fastened with wires. This was a turn off for many people, and made braces be a preserve of children who really couldn’t do without them.
Thank heavens, things have changed!
Today, there are orthodontic clinics that are primarily serving adults. The orthodontic treatment options being offered have not just proven to be very effective with adults, they also augur so well with adults. Talk of almost invisible braces that adults can use to straighten their teeth and no one will easily notice!
Invisible braces, unlike the traditional metal braces, are built to give adults a way out of intrusive treatment options.
The cost of adult orthodontic treatment isn’t different from the traditional dentist fees. Thus more and more people are giving orthodontic treatment a shot; they have nothing to lose anyway.
Today’s world has become a global village, ideas and news are being shared across the world each second. People who suffered all their lives with crooked teeth, bad smiles, have heard of the amazing results of adult orthodontics treatment.
Orthodontists themselves are also stepping out to demystify the myth that orthodontic treatment is a preserve of kids alone. In major cities like London, you’ll find some of the UK’s known best orthodontist in the world, with large, modern orthodontic clinics, and a major chunk of their clients are actually adults.
Which adults need orthodontic treatment?
It is a sad thing that there are some adults who aren’t proud of their smiles, who have perfected the art of withholding a smile due to their dental arrangement. Others don’t even realize when they place their hands over their mouths o cover their teeth; they have done it since childhood till they no longer realize it. To such people, the simple use of orthodontic braces is a sure and effective way or straightening their teeth. Even as an adult with crowded teeth or spaced teeth, you can find help via orthodontic treatment.
What is the cost of adult orthodontic treatment?
The cost of adult orthodontic treatment will cost anywhere from $ 2,500and upwards, depending on various issues. You can however discuss with the orthodontist and settle for a price that’s fair.
See about Orthodontics Treatment on Google business
Posted in Orthognathic
Losing Man Boobs with Liposuction
Posted on August 23, 2015January 7, 2017 by admin
Having excessively big man boobs can be very embarrassing for a man. It makes a man lose self confidence. It is traditional that boobs are meant for women so when a man develops huge boobs, it becomes very awkward. Aside from the cosmetic point of view, it is a health hazard for a man to develop very big man-boobs.
This is not a concern anymore though. Modern science has come up with a cosmetic treatment known as liposuction. This treatment has been known to treat this condition among many others. Scientific surveys have shown that the fat deposits found around the boob area are very stubborn and hard to get rid of. This is where liposuction comes in.
The results of liposuction are evident even as soon as right after the completion of the procedure. When liposuction is carried out, it suctions all the fat with the help of small tubes that are inserted into the body. Once the fat has been drained, the skin is tightened up so as to leave no space for infections and more fat deposits.
The procedure to lose man boobs using liposuction is very easy. If performed by a professional, one could go home immediately after the procedure to recuperate there. The procedure also doesn’t take a lot of time to be completed. Once the local anesthesia administered wears off, you can continue with life as usual of course with a little bit more rest.
Experts in the liposuction in London field have declared the man boob removal procedure to be very safe. They say that seldom does anything go wrong. If well taken care of, infections are hard to contract.
Summary
Liposuction to remove man boobs is a very safe procedure. It also takes a very short time to heal. It is therefore a very economical procedure whichever way you look at it.
Conclusion
If you have been considering liposuction to lose your man boobs, wait no more. For more information on the procedure, log on to www.drpuneetgupta.co.uk . Enjoy a new lease of life.
Posted in Liposuction
Increase Your Memory Power
Posted on August 22, 2015 by admin
A good memory helps people to lead a productive lifestyle.  In the workplace, for instance, one must be able remember about different records so that they can serve their clients well.  Still, students need to have a good memory in order to pass in the exams. Fortunately, it is possible to increase the memory power so that an individual can achieve productivity in life. Here are some of the tips to guide you through:
Eat Proper Meals
Certain foods such as fish, oatmeal, and vegetables can increase the memory capacity. Such foods have low glycemic index, which means that they will take longer for the body to break them down. Thus, they will increase an individual’s memory capacity. On the other hand, one must avoid certain foods and drinks such as alcohol and white bread.
Complete Puzzles and Engage In Game Teasers
To improve your memory capacity, you can go online and find puzzles or games that engage your mind. Reading some books can also be helpful. Ultimately, engaging in such activities regular basis will not only help individuals to think independently and fast, but it will also make it easy for them to remember certain things.
Rest and Meditate
Your body needs to rest after work or school. Actually, people are advised to take at least six hours of sleep every day. This way, the brain is able to function properly. It is also important for people to find quiet places where they can meditate on various issues of life.
Summary
Certainly, increasing the memory power is possible if an individual can eat certain foods, complete puzzles, play some games, read books, and take rest.
Conclusion
Improving an individual’s memory power is important for people who want to remain productive in their lives. Specially, students and employees should enhance their memory capacities on a regular basis. Seeking for professional’s advice and reading some materials from the online sources can help in this regard.
Posted in Healthy Life
Frequently Asked Questions about Orthognathic Surgery
Posted on August 10, 2015August 10, 2015 by admin
Very many people do not understand Orthognathic surgery. Whenever a doctor prescribes it, people are stumped. This is because they either have not heard of it before or don’t know much about it if they have. It is very frustrating to be prescribed to a strange medical procedure. Because of this however, there are very many questions that people frequently ask about it. Some of them include;
What is Orthognathic Surgery?
The normal kind of surgeries people know a lot about but Orthognathic surgery, they know little or nothing about. They wonder what exactly this procedure is. Well, Orthognathic surgery is a surgical procedure used to correct jaw abnormalities. and this is done by qualified Orthodontist.
Who performs it?
People also ask who performs the procedure. Many don’t believe that there can be a trained dental surgeon. There are indeed. These are well trained individuals that work tirelessly to restore your dental health. Not just any doctor can perform this procedure.
How safe is this surgery?
Another question frequently asked about when it comes to Orthognathic surgery, is the safety of the procedure. Before you undergo any surgical procedure, you need to know its safety and the collateral damage you are likely to incur as a result. Experts swear that this surgical procedure is safe and very foolproof. They insist that it does exactly what it is meant to do.
How much does it cost?
This is a very frequently asked question. People want to know how much they need to pay for such a procedure. Costs vary based on the condition being corrected. The margin is not that wide though. It is easily affordable too.
Summary
Orthognathic surgeries are cosmetic procedures mostly. There are therefore scores of questions that people ask about them. It is important to have all answers before undergoing any procedure such as Invisible Braces treatment
Conclusion
If you are feeling a strong need to undergo such a procedure, you could talk it out with some of the best orthodontists in the world. You can reach them through their website www.angelorthodontics.co.uk. What are you waiting for?
Posted in Orthognathic
Why you need Hypnotherapy in 2015?
Posted on August 8, 2015August 8, 2015 by admin
Why haven’t you given hypnotherapy a go? Now there’s an interesting thought. Many people have also had the very same idea.
Some of them went ahead and took action on that thought. Some never see it through the daydream stage. Sometimes it’s because they don’t know how to approach it. Other times it’s because there are many unknowns. Occasionally they forgo taking that approach because they feel they can’t actually get through the experience. Everyone has their own personal reaction to the thought of hypnotherapy.
What’s the truth about hypnotherapy? Can those negative concepts be right? Is there anything else to consider? Maybe one ought to have a different perspective. Let’s evaluate three points on you should think favourably about hypnotherapy, in order to determine if any of them fit here..
Hypnotherapy is rapid compared to other modalities. The chief follow-on of that relaxing will be less anxiety. This new state can act as a powerful aid to healing, removing strain from the body and mind. This outcome of hypnotherapy makes it possible positive feelings to flourish, which influence the neuron endocrine system to send out hormones which activate healing and create joyful feelings these actions cause the client to feel more elevated in their mood, creating a feedback loop to release hormones that accelerate healing.
Also influencing the rate of client improvement is because hypnotherapy loops around the critical mind. You know, the dialog that carries on “give up”, “no way”, “everybody else is better than you”, “you’re not good looking enough”, and many other self-destructive pronouncements you listen to continuously. This stuff is just like thick slop sticking to your feet, and seriously slows down the process of solving the issues.
Hypnotherapy works through the teamwork of the hypnotherapist and client, not through the use of chemical concoctions, with the possibility of side effects. Each client’s resolution derives from making the appropriate corrections to reach the desired outcome efficiently. Hypnotherapy acts through gentle corrections, like a sailboat in a soft breeze. It is not harsh or violent, like a clanging bell can be.
Hypnotherapist London is simply fun. Most people enjoy the experience of reclining back, relaxing, and chilling out. Isn’t that a delightful way to make powerful, thoroughly positive transformations! Don’t you want to try a stress relief mini-vacation? Although nothing performs all of the time for all of the people, but hypnotherapy has established a powerful track record as being effective in a wide range of, situations.
Hearing all that, how do you feel about hypnotherapy now? Isn’t that exposition powerful? What if you really thought about just how much hypnotherapy can help you?
Posted in Hypnotherapy
Designed by 2017
Lodse
