crimeinfo.org.uk
HOMEPAGE
TOPIC OF THE MONTH
CRIME & JUSTICE
GET THE FACTS...
TRUE STORIES
PHOTO-GALLERY
DISCUSSION FORUM
JUDGE FOR YOURSELF
QUIZ
DICTIONARY
USEFUL LINKS
If you want to know about crime, what causes it and how it is dealt with then this is where you can find out.First, check out the Crime & Justice page. This will give you the basics on crime and how it fits in with the media, politicians, and business.Take a look at the Topic of the Month. This month we take a look at Knife Crime.  Find out about the statistics and issues surrounding this topic and then take our Quiz.  Get The Facts will give you the information and the Photo-Gallery will give you the pictures to go with it. If you need help with the jargon then the Dictionary is the place to look. Judge For Yourself puts you in the position of a judge deciding on the right sentence for an offender - so if you think they always get it wrong this is the place to have a go yourself. The Quiz section gives you the chance to test your knowledge. Cheers and JeersCheers to Professor Steve Tombs and Dr David Whyte, authors of A crisis of enforcement: The decriminalisation of death and injury at work. In this new report, commissioned by CCJS, they highlight that more than twice as many people are killed at work than by homicide.  A crisis of enforcement means that the regulator, the Health and Safety Commission, has neither the means nor the will to tackle the levels of death and injury experienced because of work.  You can read the full report at: www.crimeandjustice.org.uk/acrisisofenforcementstructure.htmlJeers to the treatment of young people in Britain.  According to a study by the four children’s commissioners for England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, there is a widespread flouting of young people’s human rights in this country. The report to the United Nations voices concerns about a punitive criminal justice system, poor public attitudes to children, lack of protection against physical punishment in the home and one of the highest levels of child poverty in Europe. ’Law creates underclass of child criminals’, reported the Times. www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/uk/crime/article4093218.eceThis site has been put together by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King’s College London. We hope you enjoy it and would welcome your feedback so we can continue to improve it.
This site has been funded by:
POLL
Is up to 4 years in prison appropriate for having a knife in public without a lawful reason?
A Too high a penalty
B Too low
C About right
Copyright, Privacy & Disclaimer
-
Contributor Credits
-
Join CCJS
-
(Website design by
Codeface)
