Cumbria Phones | Cheap contract phone
Skip to content
Home
About
Contact
Should You Buy a Cheap Phone?
When looking for a new phone, budget is always a concern at least for most people. Majority of consumers who want the latest handset but can’t afford to buy it with cash generally apply for a contract phone deal. If you don’t want a phone contract and your cash is tight, buying a cheap phone is very tempting. But is really smart to do so?
While there are plenty of cheap phones available in the market, most choices are often a poor buy unless you choose well. To get your choice right, it would help to keep the following key considerations in mind:
Set your budget
To kick off your search for the best cheap phone for your needs, you need to start by setting your budget. How much can you spare for a new phone? Remember that in most cases, the cheapest phone isn’t always the best choice. It may be not hurt your budget now but don’t expect your investment to last either.
If you were going to use your phone often, it would be best not to be a complete cheapskate. You don’t have to spend a fortune on a phone but you should think of it as an investment. If you want a reliable handset, setting a budget somewhere between £150 and £300 is reasonable enough.
Choose your iOS
With so many phones from different brands and manufacturers in the market, choosing the right phone can be tricky. One of the best ways to sift through your options is to choose your preferred operating system.
There are three major OS to compare and check out. They include Apple’s iOS, Android and Windows Phone. If you’re going to opt for an iOs phone, buying the latest iPhone model is going to be expensive. Since you’re on a budget, you might do well with older iPhone models. If you want a more varied selection, choosing Android is your best bet. There are more phones from different brands that are running on Android. Some of the best budget-friendly phones you’ll find come from Motorola, LG or HTC. There are also a number of Nokia phones running on Windows Phone that are priced affordable including some of the Lumia models.
Pick a screen size
To further narrow your phone choices, you can choose which type of screen size would suit your taste best. There are compact phones perfect for keeping on pockets, mid-sized screen handsets and large screen options also called phablets. To determine which size is best for you, it would help to ask yourself how you intend to use your phone. For instance, if you’re always on the go and want your phone handy all the time, compact handsets are ideal.
Know what type of features you want
Buying a phone just because you like the design or size is not going to ensure that you’re going to nail your option. What you need to do instead is to know the set of phone features that you want. Some of the key features you need to compare and check out include your phone’s processor, camera, battery life, screen resolution and internal storage among others.
You won’t find a budget-friendly phone that is excellent in every aspect. You may find a phone with an excellent camera but the battery life may not be as impressive. In most cases, you’ll need to rank the phone features that you want according to priority to help you with your decision.
28-11-2015
admin
Cheap contract phone
1 Comment
5 Best Mobile Phones under £150
Do you want a handy and reliable phone without spending a fortune for it? While there are still a lot of crappy phones out there, we’ve rounded up a list of the best cheap phones under £150 for you to choose from. For so little a cost, you can enjoy the best value with these choices. Best of all, you don’t have to worry about sluggish performance or poor resolution screens either. Here are some handsets you might want to check out.
Moto G 4G
Though not exactly a new model, the Moto G 4G tops the list of the cheapest phones available in the market today. For under £150 with some offers going as low as £100, you cannot go wrong with this handset. It has a solid build with a 4.5-inch screen, decent screen resolution and 4G connectivity. Though the internal storage is low at 8GB, you can upgrade up to 32 GB thanks to the microSD feature. Don’t expect much from the camera. It’s pretty decent at 5MP but only for times when the lighting is great.
EE Kestrel
If the Moto G is not in sync with your taste, you can always check out the EE Kestrel handset. Much cheaper at only £99, the Huawei phone is ideal for starters and budget-conscious customers. It is also available through contract phone deals at £14 or less a month. With its set of features, EE Kestrel may just be the cheapest way for you to enjoy a 4G connectivity or service. The phone is not the best cheap phones but it’s a decent all-around phone available in the UK today.
Moto E
Motorola has been hitting a gold mine with their budget phones and one of the best they’ve come up with is the Moto E. For less than £100, you’re sure to get the most value out of your purchase. The phone boasts a solid build featuring a 4.3-inch screen running on Android 4.4.2. Though the camera is only a decent 5MP, the phone’s performance is impressive enough for its price.
Nokia Lumia 630Sony Xperia M2
If you want a bigger screen without going over your budget, the Sony Xperia M2 is worth considering. The phone costs £150 or less if you’re opting for a Pay As You Go deal. Compared to previous models, this one’s not only faster but it features a nice set of features that should make it a worthy buy.
24-11-2015
admin
Cheap contract phone
1 Comment
Best Phone Contract UK Deals at £15 or Less
With so many phone offers from different carriers available in the UK, finding one that perfectly sits well with your budget may be difficult. Comparing deals can take time. Just because one carrier advertises their deal as the cheapest doesn’t mean it’s always true. If you really want the cheapest deals under £15, we’ve come up with a list for you so you can confidently choose the right plan for your needs.
Sony Xperia E4
Available for a 24-month contract, Tesco Mobile offers a good deal featuring the Sony Xperia E4 phone. The plan is inclusive of 250 minutes of calls, 5000 texts and 500MB data. All these you can enjoy for only £8.50 per month.
Microsoft Lumia 535
For the same price and bundle plan as above, Tesco Mobile has another offer budget-conscious customers will love. The offer also charges £8.50 per month offering Microsoft Lumia 535 for the phone.
Samsung Galaxy Core Prime
If you can afford to pay a little more, Tesco Mobile offers a plan featuring the Samsung Galaxy Core Prime phone. It is for a 24-month contract with 4G service. The bundle plan is inclusive of 500 minutes call, 5000 texts and 500MB data with a fixed monthly fee of £12.50 per month.
Samsung Galaxy S3 Mini
At £10 per month for 24 months, Talk Mobile has one of the best and cheapest deals offering Samsung Galaxy S3 Mini for free as part of the package. Like other cheap deals, the plan includes 500 minutes of calls and 5000 texts. But the advantage, at least for those who love to browse on their mobile phone, is the more generous data allowance of 1GB per month.
Motorola Moto G 2015
With no upfront fee required, this contract phone deals from Tesco Mobile is another winner. The plan features the Motorola Moto G for the phone and a generous set of allowances for your phone services. Each month, you can enjoy 500 minutes call, 5000 texts and 500MB data at £14.50 per month for 24 months. 4G service is also included in the plan.
Motorola Moto E 2015
Offering a great value phone with a good bundle plan including 250 minutes call, 5000 texts and 500MB data, this contact phone plan from Tesco Mobile will only cost you £10 per month. The contract is 24 months with 4G service included. There’s no upfront fee required either.
Samsung Galaxy A3
If you need a more generous allowance for your call and data needs, this offer from Talk Mobile is worth considering. The plan offers the Samsung Galaxy A3 for the phone at £15 per month. Contract runs for 24 months featuring 4G connection and a bundle plan inclusive of 1,000 minutes call, 5000 texts and 2GB data.
LG G3 S
For a fixed fee of £15 per month, this 24-month contract from Talk Mobile is perfect for those looking for a nice phone at an affordable cost. This contract phone deal features the LG G3 S handset with a generous bundle plan. You can enjoy 1000 minutes of call, 5000 texts and 2GB of data usage per month. You’ll also enjoy £15 cash back.
Microsoft Lumia 640
Talk Mobile steps it up further for its customers with this contract phone deal by offering generous £40 cash back. The plan includes the Microsoft Lumia 640 phone for free. The bundle plan, on one hand, features 1000 minutes of calls, 5000 texts and 2GB data at a fixed monthly rate of £15 for 24 months.
20-11-2015
admin
Cheap contract phone
31 Comments
Finding Cheap Guaranteed Mobile Phone Contracts
Finding a cheap contract phone deal when you have a poor financial history to worry about is going to be tough. Major carriers are likely to reject your application. If you do find a suitable deal, the monthly rate may be too high as a consequence of your bad credit score. To avoid getting the losing end of the deal, there are some things you can do. We’ve rounded up a list of helpful tips for you to keep in mind below.
Do your homework
Like with any important purchases or investments, you don’t sign up for the first deal you find online. Carriers will claim that their phone deal offers are the cheapest in the market. In most cases, that’s just advertising talking. If you really want to get the most value for your contract phone, you must do your homework by assessing your needs first.
How much call, text and data will you need per month? Will you rely on your phone for everyday communication? These are some questions you need to ask to help you find a suitable deal.
Peruse your budget
Your budget also plays a very important role when looking for a guaranteed mobile phone contract. Obviously you have to make sure that the contract plan you’re applying for is within budget. Check your finances and determine the amount you can set aside for your monthly bill. If your budget is £10, you can use that as marker when looking for the right phone deal. Going beyond your budget is not at all wise. Remember that contracts for this type of deals last for 24 months. You don’t want to put yourself in a position where you are unable to pay your dues because you did not consider your budget in your decision-making.
Shop around
When it comes to guaranteed mobile phone deals, shopping around is critical. With so many deals available for you to choose from, the search can be difficult not to mention confusing. This is where reliable comparison sites come handy. Rather than sift through the innumerable deals available online, you can use these sites to check out the best phone deals suitable for your needs and budget. Compare key factors such as handset offers, bundle plans, monthly cost and extra services such as 4G. Choose a plan that suits your needs perfectly to get the most value out of your phone deal.
Research your provider
Because you’re opting for a contract plan, you’d want a reliable provider or carrier that promises excellent customer service throughout the duration of your contract. At one point or another, you may need to call customer service for assistance. Make sure your carrier is known for their topnotch customer service. You’d also want to go with a carrier that offers the best coverage and speed particularly in your area in the UK. Seeking recommendations from other customers when it comes to your carrier choice should help you make the right decision.
Read the small print
Before you close and sign any deal, take time to read the small print. Carriers can be tricky when it comes to your phone bill. They can rack up your phone bill without you knowing it by inserting extra charges and hidden fees. Avoid the pitfall of paying more than needed by reading the small print. Details about hidden fees and associated charges with your phone bill are found in the fine print. Or you may also call customer service to inquire about said charges. Either way, this step is a must if you want to get hooked to a cheap and affordable deal.
16-11-2015
admin
Guaranteed Mobile Phone Contracts
125 Comments
Best Cheap Mobile Phones for 2015
Are you looking for a cheap handset with just the right combo of features and price tag? You’re in luck because we have here a roundup of the best budget-friendly phones for 2015. Choose one from our list and you’re sure to get the best value out of your investment.
Sony Xperia M2
If you need a phone with excellent water resistance feature, the Sony Xperia M2 is a good buy. The phone features top level water proofing at a cost you can truly afford. With a 4.8-inch screen, the Android phone is just the right size to carry around even at the beach or in the pool. You won’t need to worry about it getting damaged when wet thanks to its waterproofing design. Adding even more value to the phone is the impressive battery life.
Huawei Ascend G7
Enjoy premium design without the premium price tag with the Huawei Ascend G7. Bigger than the Sony Xperia M2, the phone features a 5.5-inch screen boasting a sleek style that makes it look worth more than its cost. There’s just one downside, however. The screen’s resolution is less than impressive at only 720p. In any case, it’s the kind of phone you can confidently show off in public.
Motorola Moto E
Featuring a set of upgrades, the Motorola Moto E is a winning option for budget-conscious customers. Design may not be a quick stand out but it’s a solid one with 4.5-inch screen and 540×960 resolution running on Android 5.0. For its low price, the Moto E is an ideal starting phone. Just don’t expect a generous storage. It also has 8GB and you may also experience some display issues.
Microsoft Lumia 640
Though not exactly great looking, the Microsoft Lumia 640 is one of the best budget-friendly phones you’ll find in the market today. If you’re especially a Windows Phone fan, Lumia 640 has the bells and whistles starting with its impressive display and impressive battery life at a very attractive price tag. In addition, the phone also features a pretty good 8MP rear camera and a decent 1MP front camera.
Nokia Lumia 735
If you’re like most millennials, then you love your selfies like you love a good phone. Fortunately, you don’t really need a high-end handset for perfect selfies. With the Nokia Lumia 735, you have an impressive 5MP camera for everyday snaps. The phone also features HD screen with 4-7-inch size and 720×1280 resolution. There’s just one drawback and that could be the keyboard that can get frustrating to use sometimes.
EE Harrier
For under £200, you can enjoy a nice set of features with the EE Harrier. The phone has a full HD screen with a 5-2-inch size and a very impressive battery life that can last up to days with normal use. It’s a nice phone great for gaming, browsing and a host of other uses.
HTC Desire 510
If you’re going to use your phone for a lot of browsing and Internet use, the HTC Desire 510 promises a speedy 4G feature. The operating system is fast enough for your browsing purposes. On the downside, the phone doesn’t have a great screen and the storage is limited.
Motorola Moto G
Of all the available cheap phones, the Motorola Moto G is arguably one of the best in the market. It’s cheap but with great value thanks to its set of features any budget-conscious user will be totally happy with. The phone also features improved camera for the selfie-loving consumers.
16-11-2015
admin
Cheap contract phone
4 Comments
Recent Posts
Should You Buy a Cheap Phone?
5 Best Mobile Phones under £150
Best Phone Contract UK Deals at £15 or Less
Finding Cheap Guaranteed Mobile Phone Contracts
Best Cheap Mobile Phones for 2015
Categories
Cheap contract phone
Guaranteed Mobile Phone Contracts
© 2017 - www.cumbrialink.org.uk
