Welcome to The Dartington Hall Trust
Welcome to The Dartington Hall Trust
Subscribe
My Account
Basket
Menu
Home
About
Dartington is changing
History & archive
Latest news & blogs
Dartington Who’s Who
Our partners
Trustees & management
Annual review
Media Centre
Careers
Contact us
What’s On
Browse all events
Barn Cinema listings
Barn Cinema
About the 14thC Barn
Cinema Listings
Annual Events
Community Day
Dartington Food Fair
Dartington Summer School and Festival
Open Farm Sunday
Party in the Town
Ways With Words Festival
Classes and Courses
Crafted @ Dartington
Dartington Summer School Courses
Schumacher College
Workshops at The Shops
Ways to stay informed
Visit
Explore
The Gardens
Getting here
Estate walks
Visitor Centre
Food & Drink
The White Hart
The Roundhouse Café
Making the most of Devon
Stay at Dartington
Our Accommodation
Book your stay
Shopping
The Shops at Dartington
Visitor Centre
The Deer Park Project
Our Work
Our projects & initiatives
Abundant Life
LandWorks
Research in Practice
Research in Practice for Adults
Schumacher College
The Social Enterprise Hub
Summer School of Music
Our Community
Community noticeboard
Refugee Support Network
Dartington Water
How we use our land
Land Use Review
Conservation
Our growing community
Our clean energy commitment
The Deer Park Project
The Plantation – a new self build project at Dartington
Register your interest
Our Venue
Weddings
About our venue
Civil weddings
Space Studios
Make a booking enquiry
Conferences at Dartington Hall
A space for any event
Commercial Property Lettings
General enquiries
Concert hall booking
Aller Park Community Collective
Register for the scheme
Support Us
Volunteer at Dartington
Donate to Dartington
Membership
Our Community
Search:
Search
Welcome to The Dartington Hall Trust
New café coming soon!
New café coming soon!
New café coming soon!
Family-friendly venue will showcase local produce and celebrate Dartington’s craft story
Read More >>
A new way to grow?
A new way to grow?
A new way to grow?
Trust to test new multi-agency agroforestry model on 48 acres
Read More >>
About us
Every year at Dartington we welcome over 650,000 visitors who take part in our events, courses, and festivals and enjoy our cinema, shops, restaurant and gardens, proceeds from which fund our extensive charitable work.
Inspired by our founders, Dorothy and Leonard Elmhirst, we are currently working towards a new long-term vision to be a pioneer of deep personal and societal change. Click here to find out more.
Subscribe to email updates from us
Subscribe to email updates from usFirst NameLast NameEmailPassword
Password must contain at least 8 characters.Confirm password I confirm I am happy to receive What's On email newsletters from The Dartington Hall Trust, containing news, events and special offers. I understand that in creating an account I am agreeing to the Terms and Conditions for this website. I understand that I can change my preferences at any time by visiting My Account.Subscribe
Getting here/opening times
Upcoming events
Dartington Sinfonietta
Join us for the eagerly anticipated launch of the Dartington Sinfonietta, a new professional orchestra for Devon and Cornwall.
Find out more
Transition Town Totnes Film Festival
Choose from 33 sessions of inspiring, solution-based films screening at this year’s festival
Find out more
New Crafted courses for 2017
From beekeeping to upholstery to timber framing, this is brilliant, affordable craft – for everyone.
Find out more
Search all events:
By TypeAll EventsConcerts and PerformancesClasses and CoursesBarn Cinema listingsEvents and ExhibitionsFamily EventsFoodie EventsThe Shops at Dartington EventsFromToToGo
Current projects
Just a small selection of developments from across the Dartington estate. Visit Our work to explore everything that we do.
Dartington is changing The Dartington Hall Trust is currently going through a time of significant transformation. Visit our ‘Dartington is changing’ microsite to find out more about how we are working towards a new strategy and approach at Dartington. Read more
Deer Park restoration Latest news on ongoing work to repair and conserve the historic 18th century Grade 11 listed Deer Park Wall on the estate. Read more
The Plantation A groundbreaking new self and custom build housing project in Dartington Read more
Refugee and asylum support We are part of a network offering practical support and welcome for refugees and asylum seekers in South Devon. Read more
Queen's Marsh restoration Find out why we’re conducting a feasibility study into the potential to restore Queen’s Marsh to a wetland habitat. Read more
Aller Park rooms reopen Register now for this new, community-led project bringing two rooms back into use for artists and practitioners. Read more
Latest NewsAll News >Refugee integration programme to be delivered by South Devon partnershipPlans for a year of activity to build cross-cultural connections and help South Devon-based refugees and asylum seekers settle in the UK have been given the go ahead thanks to a recently secured Big Lottery Fund grant. Read More >>The Shops' Pick of the MonthPinkster Gin (£36.99 for 70cl) and Pinkster Gin Jam (£6.49 for £340g). Let the love beGin with Pinkster - the perfect alternative Valentine’s Day gift. An agreeably British gin, it’s handcrafted in small batches and steeped in fresh raspberries to give it its distinctively fruity colour and taste. Read More >>Local primary school helps Luscombe Drinks plant 1,600 trees at DartingtonLocal artisan drinks producer, Luscombe Drinks have teamed up with Dartington C of E Primary School to plant 1,600 trees as part of an innovative agroforestry project on The Dartington Hall estate. Read More >>
Gallery: Dartington’s Great Hall & Gardens
The Great Hall
The Sunny Border
Henry Moore's Reclining Figure
The Tiltyard
2,000-year-old yew tree
Daisies near St Mary's Tower
The Great Hall
Azalea Garden and Swan Fountain
Swan Fountain
View of Hall from Tiltyard summit
Snowdrops in the Gardens
Blogs from around the estateAll blogs >Food and Farming blog: Will our unique new approach bear fruit?In her latest blog, Harriet explains how, after a huge amount of work behind the scenes, Dartington is about to deliver agroforestry in a way that has never been seen in the UK before. Read More >>Mary Bartlett's blog: My travels with unicornsDartington's tutor for bookbinding writes on why unicorns, and the subject of taxonomy, continue to have such an impact on her work and learning. Read More >>Volunteer blog: How can stone rubbing tell us about the past?Martin Broadbent, a Dartington volunteer, is collaborating with Mary Bartlett to survey, map and list the gravestones in St Mary’s Old Churchyard. As the project progresses, Sonja finds out how stone rubbing is aiding Martin's work. Read More >>
Dartington on Facebook
[powr-facebook-feed id=ec580ede_1481729166756]
Donate to DartingtonYour help goes a long way, and we are extremely grateful for any contribution you can make. You can donate to Dartington generally or to specific projects.Find out how you can help
Opening hours & directions
(all Mon-Sun)
Gardens: dawn ’till dusk
Visitor Centre: 9am-5pm
Shops: 9.30am-5.30pm Mon-Sat, 10am-5pm Sun(Venus Cafe 8.30am-5pm Mon-Sun)
Barn Cinema Box Office: 12.30-7pm
White Hart restaurant: 12-3pm & 5.30-9pm
White Hart bar: 12 noon-11pm
Roundhouse Cafe: 9am-8pm
Visiting Dartington - maps, directions & more
Site Map
Home
About
Contact Us
What’s On
Our Work
Visit
Our Venue
Support Us
News
Subscribe
Privacy & Cookie Policy
Terms & Conditions
Get Involved
Volunteer at Dartington
Stay Informed
Become a Member
Careers & Internships
Follow us on:
Facebook for upcoming events >>
Twitter for the latest news >>
Registered charity number: 279756 | © 2014 Dartington Hall
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkRead more
Spektrix session
