Home | Eastern Leadership Centre
Eastern Leadership Centre
Menu Button
The Eastern Leadership Centre (ELC) has a proud track record since 2003 as a registered charity supporting professionals and volunteers in education, to improve what they do and how they lead others.
Since November 2015 ELC has been conducting a strategic review of its charitable activities. Current national government education policy continues to focus on a ‘school-led system’, reinforced in the recent education White Paper Educational Excellence Everywhere (March 2016). Given that emphasis, and growing pressure on local and national educational budgets, our strategic review concluded that ELC’s charitable mission would in future best be secured by relocating ELC’s key activities. The successors chosen are other, carefully selected organisations which like ELC are committed to the best interests of schools and the people who work and volunteer in them.
ELC is therefore pleased to announce that its work in these four major areas of activity is being transferred to the following organisations:
Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND): The Eastern Partnership UK (SEND) is brought to you by Herts for Learning. Click here for further details.
School Leadership: The Cambridge Meridian Academies Trust (CMAT) has become the new home for the provision of Leadership East’s licensed delivery of the National Professional Qualifications (NPQML, NPQSL and NPQH), and will now also deliver a range of other school leadership activities formerly provided by ELC. Click here for further details.
Governance: The National Governors’ Association (NGA) has become the new home for Governor E Learning (GEL) online learning for governors, clerks and school leaders, and the Leading Governance’s licensed provision for the National Governance Programmes (Chairs Leadership Development Programme, National Clerks’ Development Programme and Workshops for Performance Related Pay, Financial Efficiency and Raise Online). Click here for Leading Governance, and Click here for GEL.
Teaching Assistants: Best Practice Network (BPN) is the Eastern region’s new HLTA provider and will now also deliver a range of other teaching assistant work. Click here for further details.
For further background to ELC’s strategic review, please click here for message from ELC's trustees.
Early Years Courses
Early Years
Further information
School Leadership Courses
School Leadership
Further information
SEN Courses
SEND
Further information
Governance Courses
Governance
Further information
Teacher Assistant Courses
Teaching Assistants
Further information
SEN Courses
Administration
Further information
Please note that this site uses cookies.
You can change your cookie settings in your browser. Otherwise, we’ll assume you’re ok to continue.
I accept
