The Family Budget Unit
Objectives
Trustees
Staff
Publications
Budgets
Contact Details
News
August 2011
The Family Budget Unit has decided to dissolve itself. The
trustees made this decision unanimously at a meeting on July 1 2011. The
appropriate notice has been sent to the Registrar of Companies.
In accordance with clause 7 of the Companies memorandum of
Association on the dissolution of a company after the payment of all debts and
liabilities the surplus funds have been transferred to the Zacchaeus 2000 Trust http://www.z2k.org/ because it has similar
objectives to the FBU.
The intellectual property of the FBU has been transferred to
the Minimum Income Standards project http://www.minimumincomestandard.org/ at the University of Loughborough who, with the support of the Joseph Rowntree
Foundation http://www.jrf.org.uk/,  continue to research and publish budget
standards.
This website will remain open for the time-being because it
contains links to FBU publications. These are in the process of being archived
in the British Library.
July 2007
Hermione Parker died on 11 July 2007.
Mimi Parker was founder, Trustee and inspiration of the Family Budget
Unit and for many years served as its Director and driving force. She
contributed to the book published by Ashgate in 1993 and was reponsible
for the two reports on budget standards for families in 1998 and pensioners
in 2000, both published by Policy Press. She also did the budgets for
Muslim families and low paid families in the East End of London in 2001.
Objectives
The Family Budget Unit (FBU) is an educational charity (No 298813) and
private limited company (No 221 1830), founded in 1987, with three objectives:
To advance the education of the public in all matters relating
to comparative living standards and living costs throughout the
United Kingdom
To carry out research into the economic requirements and consumer
preferences of families of different composition, for each main
component of a typical family budget
To publish the useful results of such work.
Home | Disclaimer |
Page Design
