Financial Secretary sets out details for Junior ISAs - Press releases - GOV.UK
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
GOV.UK
Search
Search
Menu
Departments
Worldwide
How government works
Get involved
Policies
Publications
Consultations
Statistics
Announcements
Press release
Financial Secretary sets out details for Junior ISAs
From:
HM Treasury and Mark Hoban
First published:
31 March 2011
This news article was published under
the 2010 to 2015 Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government
The Financial Secretary to the Treasury publishes draft regulations detailing the Government’s new tax-free children's savings accounts.
The Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Mark Hoban MP, has today published draft regulations detailing the government’s new tax-free children’s savings accounts or ‘Junior ISAs’. It is expected that 6 million children will be eligible for the ISAs at launch, with a further 800,000 becoming eligible each following year.
The government welcomes views from relevant parties, but proposes for Junior ISAs to take the following form:
Junior ISAs will be available from the 1 November 2011
children will be able to have one cash and one stocks and shares Junior ISA at any time, with an overall annual contribution limit of £3,000
the government will align the current Child Trust Fund (CTF) limit (£1,200) with this so that current CTF holders will benefit
Junior ISAs will be offered by high-street banks, building societies, and any other providers that currently offer standard ISAs
funds in Junior ISAs will be ‘locked in’ until the child is 18, and the accounts will then, by default, become adult ISAs
the Chancellor has also confirmed that provisions will be made for looked after children (see details below)
Mark Hoban said:
Junior ISAs are a great example of a simple, clear and jargon-free financial product that allows families to save and invest for their child’s future. They allow parents and family friends to contribute to children’s savings and will strengthen the savings culture. I look forward to seeing these on the high street in a few months time.
Notes for Editors
The Financial Secretary announced that the government would create a new tax-free children’s savings account in October 2010. The original press notice can be found here: http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/press_57_10.htm
Full draft regulations can be found here: http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/fin_draft_reg_jr_isa.htm
The Chancellor confirmed during Treasury Oral Questions on 22 March 2011 that support would be available for looked after children through Junior ISAs. A transcript with further details can be found here: http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201011/cmhansrd/cm110322/debtext/110322-0001.htm
Further details will be set out in due course.
The government will publically consult on the draft regulations until May 2011.
If the parent contributed the maximum amount over 18 years, the child could see resulting funds of up to £70,000 or £80,000.
Non-media enquiries should be addressed to the Treasury Correspondence and Enquiry Unit on 020 7270 4558 or by e-mail to public.enquiries@hm-treasury.gov.uk
Media enquiries should be addressed to the Treasury Press Office on 020 7270 5238.
Share this page
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Published:
31 March 2011
From:
HM Treasury
Mark Hoban
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
What you were doing
What went wrong
Send
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Policies
Publications
Announcements
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright
