Glasgow The Caring City
Home
About Us
Health
Education
Security
Recycle
Contact Us
Past Newsletters
Available for download via the links below
Spring Summer Newsletter 2011
August 2010 Newsletter
January 2010 Newsletter
Matthews Farm Newsletter
Glasgow the Caring City
Glasgow the Caring City is a Scottish charity which supports children in crisis here at home and overseas.
We do so by supporting programmes of health, education and security, while working in partnership with local
communities, for a sustainable future. We recognise that whole community solutions create stronger
environments for children and their families.
Health
Caring for young people living in crisis will often mean supporting programmes which
specifically relate to their health. Click on this link to look at three unique case studies
which highlight the positive contributions Glasgow the Caring City is making to the health of
young people at home and abroad.
Education
Supporting young people, through programmes of education, will lead to long term prosperity
and greater community integration. Our aim is to deliver basic education to every child in a
partnership programme and offer opportunities for further where possible. Read about three
unique case studies of young people excelling through Glasgow the Caring City education
initiatives.
Security
Securing a safe, caring and prosperous environment for young people to live in is essential
to the principles of good community develop. Security is about the tools for living today and
the environment for prosperity tomorrow. Read about the ways in which Glasgow the Caring City
is addressing security issues for communities at home and abroad.
Donate
To donate money to Glasgow the Caring City please click on the PayPal button below
and follow the onscreen instructions.
Projects
Glasgow the Caring City is a unique charity, focusing on partnerships for development opposed to self-delivering projects.
Learn more about our projects »
Donating
It's easy to donate to Glasgow the Caring City, whether you'd like to donate money or you would like to donate goods.
Learn how you can donate »
Scottish Charity SC029090
Company Ltd by Guarantee SC324923
