The King's Fund response to the Comprehensive Spending Review 2010 | The King's Fund
Skip to main content
The King's FundIdeas that change health care
Venue hire
Press
Contact us
Who's who
Blog
Search form
Search
Home
Health topicsCommissioning
Competition and choice
Governance and regulation
Integrated care
Leadership and management
Measurement and performance
Mental health
NHS reform
Patient experience
Primary and community care
Productivity and finance
Public health and inequalities
Quality of care
Service redesign
Social care
Technology and data
Publications
Events
Leadership development
Audio / Video
Blog
Library services
About us
Home The King's Fund response to the Comprehensive Spending Review 2010
20 October 2010
Responding to the Comprehensive Spending Review, John Appleby, chief economist at The King's Fund, said:'Compared to other departmental budgets the NHS settlement is a generous one. But, while the increase in health spending meets the pledge to protect the NHS budget, an increase of 0.1 per cent a year in real terms will soon be swallowed up by cost pressures such as incremental pay drift and the increase in VAT. The net result will be a reduction in the NHS’s purchasing power.'This places even greater emphasis on finding the £20 billion in productivity gains targeted by the NHS's Chief Executive – the status of this has moved from an ambition to a commitment. Our work has highlighted opportunities to improve efficiency at every level of the health system. Delivering on this represents the biggest financial challenge the NHS has ever faced but it is imperative if it is to maintain quality and avoid cutting services.'The £1 billion increase in grant funding for social care could provide some respite for hard-pressed local services and buys time while the Dilnot Commission works on a long-term funding solution. But this money is not ring-fenced so there is no guarantee it will be spent on social care.'Used wisely, the additional £1 billion from the NHS budget to break down the barriers between health and social care provides a real opportunity to improve service delivery and save money by, for example, reducing the length of time patients spend in hospital. Again though, with the ring fence on local authority grant funding having been removed, and local government funding slashed overall, it remains to be seen whether this translates into increased funding for social care services.'The commitment to ring-fence funding for public health makes good on the commitment made by the Conservative Party in opposition. There is no detail though about how much funding will be provided, or where it will come from – this will presumably follow in the public health White Paper due to be published later this year.'
Notes to editors:
For further information or interviews, please contact The King’s Fund media and public affairs office on 020 7307 2585. If you are calling out-of-hours, please ring 07584 146035. An ISDN line is available for interviews on 020 7637 0185.The King’s Fund is a charity that seeks to understand how the health system in England can be improved. Using that insight, we help to shape policy, transform services and bring about behaviour change. Our work includes research, analysis, leadership development and service improvement. We also offer a wide range of resources to help everyone working in health to share knowledge, learning and ideas.
Contact the press team
T:
020 7307 2585
M:
07584 146035
E:
mediaoffice@kingsfund.org.uk​
Richard Evans
Head of Press and Public Affairs
Jack Graves
Press and Public Affairs Manager
Claire Francis
Press and Public Affairs Manager
Hannah Law
Press and Public Affairs Officer
To top
Print
Don't miss out
Sign up for Email updates
Keeping in touch
Twitter
Linkedin
Facebook
Youtube
We've got some exciting speakers for Great place to work on 23 March. See the full lineup here… t.co/SYEh7g5Gev
1 hour 25 min ago from @TheKingsFund
Follow @TheKingsFund
Email updates
Don't miss the latest health news and alerts.Sign up
Latest from our blog
NHS finances on the brink
17 Feb 2017
Read all about it: media coverage of NHS rationing
16 Feb 2017
Compassionate leadership – more important than ever in today’s NHS
15 Feb 2017
Accessibility
Contact us
Feedback
T&Cs
Cookies and privacy
© The King's Fund, 2017
Registered charity: 1126980
Site by Torchbox
