London Mining Network
London Mining Network
Holding the mining industry to account
Holding the mining industry to accountNavigation
Home
Top menuHome
About
Mining and London
Anglo American
BHP Billiton
Glencore Xstrata
Rio Tinto
Vedanta
Banking Tour
Links
Getting Started
Blog
Return to Content
Read War on Want's new report on Britain's scramble for African's energy and mineral resources
Read the new Coal Action Network report on the human impacts of mining the coal burned in UK power stations
Sign the Europe-wide petition to get the EU to close its doors to minerals mined in conflict zones!
See the work we are doing with EU partner organisations to raise awareness on over-consumption and the link to mining's problems
The world's food production and farming communities are under increasing threat from the rapid expansion of mining
Read our report "UK-Listed Mining Companies & the Case for Stricter Oversight."
London Mining Network (LMN) is an alliance of human rights, development, environmental and solidarity groups...
London Mining Network works in support of communities around the world who are badly affected by mining – mining by companies based in, or financed from, London.
Getting Started
Connect with LMN EmailFacebook
Twitter
Donate to LMN
On the blog…
Latest news about Cerrejon Coal in Colombia
10 February, 2017
Avoiding responsibility: the 2017 Lonmin AGM
2 February, 2017
Lonmin Cannot Wash its Hands of Marikana’s Blood
1 February, 2017
Featured Articles
Mining, money and murder on the South African coast
Avoiding responsibility: the 2017 Lonmin AGM
London protest against seabed mining
Vedanta: literature, protests and court cases in London
Latest News
Armenia: before the goldrush
10 February, 2017
BHP, Vale in fresh Samarco legal battle
10 February, 2017
BHP Billiton sets end date for settling £38bn claim over Samarco disaster
10 February, 2017
LMN on Twitter
Kings College : Remove suspension and charges from King's College Climate Emergency activists - Sig... https://t.co/UaMySfb12H via @UKChange
3 days ago
Concerned
about the rising tide of climate denialism? Join Divest London on March 1st for a public meeting https://t.co/onYyNjuYWU
3 days ago
These 10 companies spend most looking for gold, copper https://t.co/tobJVE6vtN via @frikels
3 days ago
RT @GaiaFoundation: Open Letter: RWE npower, Colombian #coal is killing our children. Close UK's Aberthaw Power station! https://t.co/WKhnY…
3 days ago retweeted via GaiaFoundation
"The wrong neighbor" - The story of a Wayuu mother standing up against t... https://t.co/aw3ePpYW00 via @YouTube
3 days ago
Follow londonmining on Twitter
Sign up to our newsletter Click here to join our newsletter
Contact Phone: 07903 851695
Email: contact[at]londonminingnetwork.org
Address:
London Mining Network,
Finfuture,
225-229 Seven Sisters Road,
London N4 2DA
Charitable number: 1159778
Quick LinksHome
Getting Started
Accessibility
© 2017 London Mining Network. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by WordPress. Designed by
