Benefits | Mind, the mental health charity - help for mental health problems
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Talk to us
I need urgent help
Donate
Information & support
About us
News & campaigns
Get Involved
Workplace
Shop
A-Z Mental health
Types of mental health problems
Drugs and treatments
Helping someone else
Legal rights
Tips for everyday living
Guides to support and services
Gwybodaeth iechyd meddwl Gymraeg
Helplines
Elefriends, our online community
Find your local Mind
Your stories
I need urgent help
What we do
Our strategy
Local Minds
Our impact
How we raise and spend our money
Supporter Promise
Our achievements
Our policy work
Celebrity support
Working for us
Our information
Contact us
Mind Cymru
Our equality improvement work
News
Campaigns
Mind Cymru campaigns
Mind Media Awards
Media office
Join our membership
Donate now
Run for Mind
Become a campaigner
Giving to Mind
Fundraise for us
Support your Mind shop
Volunteering & participating
Trek, cycle, swim or skydive
Resource centre
World Mental Health Day
Mental health at work
Workplace Wellbeing Index
Training & Consultancy
Corporate Partnerships
Workplace Wellbeing Wales
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message. If not, please read more about your options.
Menu
Information & support
About us
News & campaigns
Get Involved
Workplace
Shop
Talk to us
I need urgent help
Donate
Home
About us
Our policy work
Benefits
Our campaign on benefits
Support from benefits can give people help to live with independence and dignity.
However, many of you have told us that you aren’t getting the support you need or being treated fairly and with respect, because of a lack of understanding about mental health and negative stereotypes of people on benefits.
That is why we are campaigning for a fairer benefits system that better understands and supports you. We need your help to make this ambition a reality.
Below you will find information about the different issues we campaign on. Each section will explain our ongoing work as well as give you a chance to get involved and help us campaign for change. You will also find information on where you can find help and support as well as links to our most recent news stories.
"People should be nurtured through a situation when they're not feeling well instead of having to battle"
Back-to-workMainstream back-to-work schemes for people with mental health problems simply aren’t working. We need a new programme with person-centred, specialist support that understands people with mental health problems.
Find out more >
SanctionsWe think people with mental health problems should be supported rather than threatened with sanctions. That is why we are campaigning to make benefits sanctions fairer for people with mental health problems.Find out more >
PIPThe Government is replacing Disability Living Allowance (DLA) with the Personal Independence Payment (PIP). We are campaigning to make sure the new benefit works for people with mental health problems.Find out more >
The WCAYou told us too many of you are receiving poor and inaccurate assessments.
This is having a negative impact on your health and means you don’t get the right kind of support. We are campaigning for improvements to the WCA so that it is more fair and effective for you.
Find out more >
NewsWe regularly comment on Government announcements and other news stories. Once on the page, tick the 'Benefits' box on the right hand side to see recent news and statements on benefits.Read our news stories here >
Help and supportFind out where you can find help if you are having problems with benefits.Find out what help you can get >
Mental Health A-Z
Information and advice on a huge range of mental health topics
> Read our A-Z
Training
Helping you to better understand and support people with mental health problems
> Find out more
Special offers
Check out our promotional offers on print and digital booklets, for a limited time only
> Visit our shop today
Find us on Facebook
and Twitter
More Information
Accessibility
Legal info
Contact us
Media office
Jobs
© 2013 Mind We're a registered charity in England (no. 219830) and a registered company (no. 424348) in England and Wales.
