Home - NCFI.org.uk
NCFI
Home
Types
Benefits
Communities
Setup
Contact
National Care Farming Institute
Posted on August 11, 2014
What Is Care Farming?
Care farming is often described as a unique way to provide an improved quality of life for an individual, or for a group of people. Many people consider it to be to an alternative form of treatment or medicine. Those who get into care farming often do so with a health goal in mind. This type of health goal might include physical, social, educational, or therapeutic health. Care farms are supervised and structured, as the people who run them tend to watch over the well-being of the entire group. Medical scientists and doctors have been touting care farms for many years as a viable way to help people.
The health benefits of care farms are great for people who have a variety of ailments. For example, some people who have lost functionality or who have become dependent on others, are introduced to care farms. These people are often able to do the manual labor necessary to make the garden become successful.
For example, a person who lost a limb during an accident might start participating in care farming to strengthen other limbs which suffered from atrophy during the recovery process. Others might transition to care farming after a serious illness as a way to promote recovery.
Vulnerable groups of people often participate in care farming as a way to develop better social skills. People must work together in order to make the gardens grow correctly, and those who have severe social or emotional issues learn to work with one another during the process. However, these vulnerable groups must be supervised closely by a licensed doctor. Issues do occur as a result of the mental state of many of these patients, so everyone must be aware of the overall goals of the group. When some of the group members begin to lose focus or interact poorly with others, the doctors can step in to move them to anther section of the care farm.
There are many different educational aspects to care farming as well. Students of all ages learn how to plant vegetables, fruits, wheat and other items from seed. They learn the proper fertilising and watering techniques during the process. A hands-on approach is the best way to teach kids of all ages how a plant grows. They take pleasure in seeing their efforts produce great plants. Care farming definitely helps all students to become aware of the ways in which they directly affect the environment.
Therapeutic aspects of care farming are incredibly important. People who have been through life-changing events often turn to this type of farming to interact with others who have experienced a similar fate. Care farming allows people to speak much more freely. This is easy to understand when you consider the fact that a doctors’ office is intimidating to many patients. When they are in a more relaxed atmosphere they are able to convey their feelings toward one another much more clearly, and with more confidence.
Helpful Links
All Care Farms
Resources
Westmidlands
East England
Care Farming UK
WM Care Farming
Care Farming Scotland
Farm Garden Partnership
© NCFI.org.uk
