Home | National Memorial Arboretum
Skip to main
Donate now
Explore - Discover - Remember
NATIONAL MEMORIAL ARBORETUM
Croxall Road Alrewas Staffordshire DE13 7AR
Tel: 01283 245100
info@thenma.org.uk
Opening times
9am to 5pm (or dusk in Winter)
find-form
NEED TO FIND SOMETHING QUICKLY?
Enter a keyword to search for a relevant page or document on our website.
Home
Plan your visit
What's here
About us
Events and News
Learning visits
Get involved
FAQ
Search
DISCOVER THE NATIONAL MEMORIAL ARBORETUM
Situated in Staffordshire on the edge of the National Forest, the Arboretum is the UK’s year-round centre of Remembrance.
Our maturing woodland landscape is home to over 330 memorials.
Watch Video Now
Our New Remembrance Centre
Our new Remembrance Centre is now open.
New Remembrance Centre
Find out more
Landscapes of Life Exhibition
Our Landscapes of Life Exhibition is suitable for visitors of all ages and will set the scene for your visit around our site. Visit the exhibition to journey through the history of Remembrance, experience the Arboretum through the seasons, walk through our digital poppy field, visit our temporary exhibition gallery and record your own personal memories.
Find out more
Explore
Discover What's New
Half Term Family Activities
Landscapes of Life Exhibition
The Armed Forces Memorial is now open to visitors and will remain open whilst final works take place.
The Land Train will not operate between 3 January and 17 February 2017. Undiscovered Arboretum Buggy Tours remain available during this time.
Plan Your Visit
Prepare for a memorable visit with our helpful guidance, local knowledge and travel information.
Start planning now
A Memorable Visit for Everyone
With 150 acres, over 300 memorials and an abundance of wildlife, there is something for everyone at the Arboretum.
What's here
Our Woodland Landscape
Our living landscape features over 30,000 maturing trees and a wide variety of flora and fauna.
Go exploring
Our Memorials
Our site features over 300 thought-provoking memorials, each with a story to tell and fascinating symbolism to discover.
About the Memorials
Support the Arboretum
Discover the many ways you can support the National Memorial Arboretum, a UK registered charity.
Donate
Extend Your Visit
With so much to see on our site, many of our visitors choose to extend their stay using nearby accommodation.
Book your Stay
Events For Everyone
Throughout the year, we hold a range of enjoyable events and activities from annual commemorations to seasonal experiences.
Forthcoming Events
LATEST NEWS FROM THE ARBORETUM
Prince Harry leads UK’s Armistice Day commemorations at the Arboretum
His Royal Highness joined senior military personnel, Armed Forces families, veterans and members of the public at the Arboretum’s annual Service of Remembrance which is held within the walls of the Armed Forces Memorial.
Read more
Latest from Twitter
📷 ~ Put Yourself in the Picture ~ 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦
11 - 26 Feb – FREE
Use our selfie frames to capture the perfect shots https://t.co/D6sz6B7GoiB7Goi
Read more Tweets
Arboretum takes up giant Christmas Card challenge to give thanks to Armed Forces
Help the National Memorial Arboretum break a Guinness World Record this Christmas
Read more
sginup-form
Sign up to our newsletter for updates and offers
SIGN UP
Part of The Royal British Legion
© 2017 The National Memorial Arboretum Company Limited. Registered Charity No 1043992
Visitor enquiries
Jobs
Legal Notice & Data Protection
Sitemap
Search
Back to top
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
