Home - NYASNYAS
Accessibility:
A
A
A
Text Only
Search for:
forgotten your password?
Home
Helpline
Children & Vulnerable Adults Services
Legal Services
Training
Blog
Job vacancies
Volunteering
Donate
Contact Us
Mission Statement “A society where every child, young person or vulnerable adult's voice is heard and their rights are respected and where they can achieve their potential”
NYAS-CymruNYAS-Cymru
Slough’s Children in Care launch animated films to help others
A group of 12 young people in Slough have come …read more
NYAS seeks new Chairperson
The National Youth Advocacy Service (NYAS) is a long established …read more
Home
Home
NYAS seeks new Chairperson
For more information click here
Professor Eileen Munro says exemption clauses are
“A SERIOUS DANGER”
Click here to read the full article
NYAS is a UK charity providing socio-legal services. We offer information, advice, advocacy and legal representation to children, young people and vulnerable adults through a network of dedicated paid workers and volunteers throughout England and Wales.
NYAS provides specialist legal advice and assistance. NYAS is a legal aid agency provider for family law.
Through these services NYAS provides a safety net for children, young people and vulnerable adults, who have nowhere else to turn. We work within communities across the UK, with children, with young people, with adults, and with carers, local authorities and professionals such as social workers and lawyers.
We are independent and confidential as long as you are safe.
We can help if you are:
Not being listened to
In need of some advice
In need of help to talk to Social Services
Aren't being treated fairly
Being told you have to move
Having difficulties about school
Not having the contact with your family that you want
Homeless
A vulnerable adult who is disabled
A carer
Experiencing the separation or divorce of your parents
Not feeling safe
If you are a child or young person, or you’re acting on behalf of a child, young person or vulnerable adult and need help, information or advice, please contact our helpline on FREEPHONE 0808 808 1001 or send an email to help@nyas.net. For information on Family Contact sessions please select our link on the left of this webpage; to request sessions please send an e-mail to contact.centre@nyas.net.
NYAS provides:
Advocacy services
Family Contact services contact.centre@nyas.net
Working Together for Children (CYMRU)
Separated parents information programme
Specialist family legal services
Independent visitors
Independent persons
Investigating officers
Provision of IMHAs
Advocacy for adult carers
Regulation 44 visitors
Participation and consultation
Training
Helpline
Signposting
Kinship care information
CALL OUR
FREEPHONE
0808 808 1001
Weekdays 9am - 8pm
Saturday 10am - 4pm
Excluding Bank Holidays
or send an email to
help@nyas.net
Home
Children & Vulnerable Adults Services
Legal Services
Training
Publications
Job vacancies
Volunteering
Donate
Contact Us
Individual Solicitors are regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
NYAS
Tower House, 1 Tower Road,
Birkenhead, Wirral, CH41 1FF
Head Office Telephone: 0151 649 8700
Head Office Facsimile: 0151 649 8701
Email: main@nyas.net
Registered Charity No. 1012485© NYAS 2017
