Natural Death Centre .org - The Natural Death Centre
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Natural Death Centre .org
Home | Contact us | Log in | Donate
Natural Death Centre .org
Registered CharityNumber. 1091396
Helpline: 01962 712 690Normal call rates apply
Search
Home: The NDC
Navigation
The NDC
About us
Trustees & Staff
The Natural Death Society
Support us
Frequently Asked Questions
Latest Press Release
Natural Burial Grounds
List of Natural Burial Grounds
Choosing a natural burial ground
Association of Natural Burial Grounds
The People's Awards
ANBG Membership
Future sustainability of natural burial grounds
How to set up a NBG
Arranging a funeral
Recommended Funeral Directors
Family led & DIY funerals
What is a good funeral?
Keeping funeral costs down
Celebrants
Funeral Plans
Private land burial
Coffins, Shrouds and Memorials
Resources
Books & Living Wills
More to Death Magazine
Other Downloads
Films
Further reading
Links
Education
Education and Awareness
Common Funeral Myths
Cremation
Research & Development
Open air pyres
Events & Media
Events
Media
Press Releases
Funeral Advisor
Quick Links
Frequently asked questions
Bookshop
Arranging a funeral
Natural Burial Grounds
Natural Death Society
More to Death Magazine
Leaflets and forms
How do i arrange a good funeral?
Questions to ask a funeral director
Frequently asked questions about natural burial
Natural burial ground feedback form
Other free downloads
Articles
About us
Trustees & Staff
The Natural Death Society
Support us
Frequently Asked Questions
Latest Press Release
Our work is only possible through the generous support of people like you. Please consider making a donation to ensure we can help the next family who call on us.
Don’t forget to Gift Aid your donation
Thank you for your support
The Natural Death Centre
How can we help you?
If you are looking for help, support, advice or guidance planning a funeral, either for yourself or for someone close to you, the Natural Death Centre Charity is here for you.
We are passionate about sharing knowledge, dispelling myths, and empowering everyone who wants to have the best experience possible when it comes to making arrangements for a funeral.
We firmly believe that knowledge is power, and that by knowing what is possible, you will be able to make informed choices about what is right for you, your family and for the person who has died.
Please look through the pages of this website, or call our Helpline if you would like to speak to somebody who will give you as much time as you need.
Arranging a funeral
If you have to organise a funeral, or need help with a funeral, please look at our Arranging a Funeral section. Here you will find all the information you need to help you organise a good funeral, along with information about how to buy funeral services or funeral products.
If you are about to make arrangements for a funeral you might find our free download Questions to ask a funeral director useful.
If you want to find an funeral director, or want to know what makes a better funeral director, please look at our Recommended Funeral Directors page. Here you will find information about how to find a good undertaker, and details about funeral directing companies that are recommended as being flexible, transparent and fair. If you need an undertaker to help you with a funeral, we feel it is essential to do some research about the values of the company before appointing one.
If you are considering a green burial we have some suggested Questions to ask a woodland burial site to help you ascertain just how green and environmentally responsible a site is.
If you want to buy a coffin, please look at our Coffins, Shrouds and Memorials page. These are all Eco-coffins (green coffins) made by coffin suppliers who will sell directly to the public. They are generally alternative coffins made from willow or cardboard, however there are a few manufacturers of solid wood coffins who will sell direct as well as to the funeral trade.
Detailed guidance and information about having more control of funeral arrangements is contained in our Information Pack, available free if you join The Natural Death Society - details here
The People's Awards for
The Best Natural Burial Ground in the UK
In keeping with our belief that kindness, support, empowerment and information is what every bereaved family needs, we used the information contained in over a thousand feedback forms from families who chose a natural burial to select the winners in our unique People's Awards.
Find out more here
More to Death Magazine
More to Death is the official online magazine for The Natural Death Centre and is full of interesting and thought provoking articles. Click here for more information.
Independent funeral advice
In the 25 years since the charity was founded in 1991, the Natural Death Centre has sought to inform, empower and inspire the public in all matters relating to death and dying, and in particular to increase awareness of funeral choices outside of the mainstream.
Despite our long running links with environmentally friendly funerals, we are not a green pressure group, but primarily a movement for social change.
We have played a central part in demystifying the traditional funeral, encouraging thousands of families in having the kind of funerals they wanted, and helping create opportunity for new rituals to emerge.
We are, and will continue to be an informed and reflective presence on issues such as dying at home, caring for our dead and changing funeral practices and we actively promote natural burial as an option that should be offered to everyone.
The Natural Death Society
Do you believe that death is a natural part of life?
Do you feel we should all be empowered in the process of approaching death, of dying and of organising a funeral?
Would you be willing to make a small regular donation to help support the work of The Natural Death Centre?
Would you like a complimentary copy of the Fifth Edition of The Natural Death Handbook, information packs and access to the NDC Google Group?
Why don’t you join The Natural Death Society?
How you can help us
Our work is only possible through the generous support of people like you. Please consider just making a donation to ensure we can help the next family who call on us. Just follow this link to donate online, send us a cheque, or consider leaving a legacy to the Natural Death Centre Charity in your Will. If you like what we do but can't afford to donate, please support us through following one of our social network platforms.
The Natural Death Handbook (Fifth Edition)
The latest edition of the Natural Death Handbook is now available for anyone seeking advice on caring for someone who is dying or who wants to find out more about choices in funerals.
Packed with timeless information which has helped to change the way we look at death, this ground breaking work continues to inspire and empower families across the world.
We have chosen to sell the books EXCLUSIVELY directly from the Charity to prevent major online distributors from profiting at our expense.
Packed with timeless information which has helped to change the way we look at death, this ground breaking book continues to inspire and empower families across the world.
Read more here
Click here to read a review on the Huffington Post:
Death's Summer Coat: A Review of The Natural Death Handbook, Fifth Edition
Natural Burial Grounds
The Natural Death Centre also runs the Association of Natural Burial Grounds, the organisation which sets the standard for the growing number of green and environmentally friendly cemeteries in the UK.
All of our members undertake to comply with the ANBG Code of Conduct and take part in our independent monitoring system, giving families the ANBG Feedback Form to complete and return to the NDC.
To find your nearest ANBG natural burial ground please click here to see our list of members.
Advance Decision Forms
The Natural Death Centre Advance Decision (formerly called an Advanced Healthcare Directive or Living Will), plus a Death Plan form and a Funeral Plan form, can be ordered securely online via our bookshop
You can also watch videos of people talking about their own experiences of end of life care and living with a terminal illness on the 'Living with Dying' section of the healthtalkonline website.
Bookshop
The New Natural Death Handbook fifth edition is out now, this book is a must read for everyone. Completely revised and expanded into a boxed set of three books... Read more
Credit to Will Whipple (photographer)
______________
Links and Resources
^  Top
Next page: About us
The Natural Death Centre, In The Hill House, Watley Lane, Twyford, Winchester, SO21 1QXRegistered Charity No 1091396
Website Terms & Conditions
© Copyright 2004-2017 - Natural Death CentreeMail Webmaster Michael Griffiths
