The New Forest | Quaker Care Home
to allow management of the site
to prevent this message from appearing again
By continuing to use this site you agree to these uses.
Hide this message
What are cookies?
☰
Request a brochure
Job vacancies
Contact us
01425 617 656
enquiries@newforestquakercarehome.org.uk
Text size:
A
A
A
Home
About
Care ServicesDay CareRespite CareConvalescence CareAccommodation
Activities
Latest News
Testimonials
Photo Gallery
Promoting a community atmosphere in which individual residents' needs are recognised, independence maximised and privacy respected.
Residential Care with Personal Independence
The New Forest Quaker Care Home is a residential care home, offering long and short term care to 40 older people in New Milton, in the heart of the New Forest.
Quakers have been instrumental in establishing what are known as Therapeutic Communities; the central idea being that by living together in organised and caring environments, individuals' health, emotional and spiritual well-being can benefit hugely. The New Forest Quaker Care Home is run with this ethos in mind and sees itself as one large family home.
At the New Forest Quaker Care Home we aim to provide all the services necessary to take care of you. All meals are provided, to meet your requirements.
The New Forest Quaker Care Home was purpose built and opened in 1977. Residents do not have to be Quakers, or indeed belong to any denomination.
We are registered with Hampshire County Council and inspected by The Care Quality Commission under the Health and Social Care Act 2008. Our care home offers a high standard of care, accommodation and food for people over 60. If you would like any further information please contact us today.
Make an enquiry
View our photo gallery
Visit our gallery to see our lovely home and carers
Read our latest CQC report
You can access our inspection report from the CQC website
How to find our home
View a map to get directions to our care home
Testimonials
“I can fully recommend Quaker House where both my parents have been residents for a number of years. They have received excellent compassionate care with both love and professional skill. The rooms are comfortable and clean and staff are always kind and helpful.”
Stephen M
Read more
New Forest Quaker Care Home is registered and regulated by the Care Quality Commission (CQC).
© 2017 New Forest Quaker Care Home. All rights reserved
Registered as a company in England & Wales. Reg Number 08917492
Registered as a charity in England & Wales. Reg Number 1156022
Tel No. 01425 617 656
Fax No. 01425 638 213
Email enquiries@newforestquakercarehome.org.uk
