One Stop Solution for Training and Recruitment!
+44 (0) 020 7437 7338
Looking for Immaculate, Goal Oriented and Innovative Training Modules? Call us today!
Home
Who we are
Testimonials
Subscribe
Terms
Privacy
News
Map
Feedback
When it comes to Outsourcing your Training and Recruitment Needs, settle for nothing but the BEST!
Our qualified trainers will be pleased to chart out a customized training module for you. Do get in touch with us!
Get In Touch
Our Services Turn your Employees into Long Term Assets by opting for the Best Training and Recruitment Agency!
High Reliability in Day Care
Testimonials:
Take a look at the wonderful feedback from our immensely happy clients!
Paige LordAdaptabiz
I’m glad that I chose to outsource our company’s employee training requirements to osw.org.uk. They offer some of the most advanced and internationally recognized learning platforms and training modules, which has really worked wonders for our employees!
Rhys WaltonStop N Shop
When it comes to hiring new employees, I only trust the high quality services of osw.org.uk. They are a class apart in terms of professionalism, efficiency and providing us with the most suitable candidates for interviews.
Millie BishopFarrell
I will definitely recommend the top-notch training as well as recruitment service offerings of osw.org.uk. Even though they have started off in the industry just a while ago, they have etched their mark already, with their solid team of seasoned professionals.
OSW.ORG.UK: Your Most Trusted Training and Recruitment Partner
"Is your company or business not achieved the desired results despite you repeated investments on resources at various fronts? Do you feel that you are unable to absorb and retain good employees, who can spearhead the success of your company?"
At osw.org.uk, we are a highly qualified team of seasoned professionals from the Learning Services and HR background, with a strong sense of determination and commitment to provide nothing short of excellence to our valued clients. You can rely on us for providing you with the best manpower, grooming them shaping them, nurturing them and orienting them to turn out to be precious assets for the growth and development of your organization.
Proven Track Record
When you assign us the responsibility of recruiting fresh manpower for your business or company, or conducting training sessions for them, you can be rest assured that you will not have to worry about high attrition rates ever again. With our unique ways to motivate as well as train employees, not only will they become highly productive, but they will remain loyal to your organization for times to come.
Scientific Learning Curve
Nowadays, every other company or firm boasts of providing good training to their employees, but what actually matters is that you need to measure the training returns and gauge the overall output and productivity in scientific terms, which is why our training methodology and advanced training modules are spearheaded by this very scientific and logical method. Our seasoned professional trainers who have spent a large number of years of their lives grooming and training employees have come up with this unique scientific training curve in order to adjudge the actual productivity of the training sessions.
Team Building and Leadership Modules
We at osw.org.uk lay primary emphasis on conceptualizing, developing and finally imparting training on two very fundamental aspects of any workplace, Team Building and Leadership, These two fundamental modules are a must for each and every employee, and it is not just theoretical knowledge which is required here. On the contrary, practical knowledge of these two fundamental concepts is a must in today’s highly competitive as well as interactive workplace.
Two-Way Training Methodology
Learning is a lifelong process, and more importantly, it is a two-way process as well. Owing to this belief, we seldom make use of one-way lectures, and rather focus on a large number of training games, icebreakers, story telling, presentations, case studies, group activities and most of all on fun quizzes with small prizes in the end, in order to make our training classes more lively, interactive and fun-filled all along.
Induction Training
Acculturation of an employee in a new workplace is a critical process and cannot be taken for granted. If the induction training of any employee is carried out in a well structured and logical manner, the attrition rate will automatically come down. We have a team of expert trainers who specialize in conducting induction training sessions for new employees. Call us to find out more today!
Home
Who we are
Testimonials
Subscribe
Terms
Privacy
News
Map
Feedback
Sitemap
Registered Office: OSW.ORG.UK
1st Floor
Po Box 1190
London
SW1Y 5NA
©Copyright osw.org.uk 2017
All Rights Reserved
