the Pavement magazine - the magazine for the UK's rough sleepers and homeless people
Established 2005 Registered Charity No. 1110656
Scottish Charity Register No. SC043760
Home
Stories
Cartoon strip
Services
About us
How you can help
Press
Contact
Donate
Please help us to help more homeless people by setting up a monthly direct debit.
Donate Online Now
the Pavement relies on donations and volunteering from individuals and companies...
more on donating
the Pavement supporters at justgiving.com
justgiving.com
thePavement
thePavement is the free magazine for the UK's homeless people
We are committed to publishing objective reportage, tailored to a homeless readership, and to publicising the complete range of services available to homeless people, to reduce hardship amongst our readers and to enable them to guide their future.
We believe that drives to produce homogenous services for homeless people are misguided, and that a range of service types and sizes are the only way to cater successfully for our diverse readership.
We believe that sleeping rough is physically and mentally harmful; however, we do not preach to those who chosen to, nor do we believe that all options to get off the streets are necessarily beneficial to long-term health and happiness.
Downloads
Your rights
The Rights Guide for Rough Sleepers outlines your rights around arrest, stop and search, answering police questions, move-ons, no-drinking zones, sleeping rough, taking a pee in public and highway obstruction. It was put together by The Pavement, Housing Justice, Liberty and Zacchaeus 2000.
If your benefits have been sanctioned (cut off or reduced) and you feel this is unfair, you can appeal. Print this letter and hand it in at the office where you sign on. If you feel you need more advice about sanctions, contact  Zacchaeus 2000 or your nearest  Citizen’s Advice Bureau. And let us know
at The Pavement!
volunteer
If you are a journalist with some free time to research and write stories for the magazine, please
contact us . For other volunteering opportunities, please approach organisations listed on our Services pages or your local volunteer centre
RSS NEWS FEED
SUBMIT A SERVICE
The web site is coded by hand at Flat Earth Industries
The type is set in FS Albert webfont delivered courtesy of Fontdeck
Ollie the twitterrific bird appears courtesy of www.twitterrific.com
In the latest issue
Meet the team
Since September last year, the Pavement magazine and homeless charity Groundswell have been running 'From the Ground Up’, which aims to teach journalism skills to people with first-hand experience of homelessness. Their articles focus on some of the numerous problems faced by people who’ve been marginalised by homelessness.
We’ve recorded a podcast, done interviews and written...
Focus: round in circles
When Jeremy Hayden ended up homeless, he also had mental health and drug problems and couldn’t get help. He investigates why, and finds his experience is worryingly common.
“It’s fucked up. I’m supposed to be looked after. I feel let down by the police and most of the services I’ve approached.”
Spending time in one of London’s day...
Breaking News
Glasgow homeless services at risk
Glasgow City Council has raised the alarm about the introduction of Universal...
Stop the scandal
St Mungo’s released the second phase of their Stop the Scandal campaign...
Legal aid charade
Cuts
to Legal Aid, that are leaving vulnerable people without access...
Charity begins at home?
Almost a third of charity workers don’t donate money to good causes,...
Liverpool Police homeless curb beggars belief
Merseyside Police have adopted a football referee style card scheme to target...
A major step in reducing homelessness?
A new bill, proposed by the Conservative MP, could transform homeless services...
Announcements
09 February 2017
Listen to our first 'From the Ground Up' podcast and hear from our
team about the difficulties in getting help when you are homeless and
also have both mental health and addiction issues. Produced by Steve
Urquart.
Listen now...
09 February 2017
Our Glasgow Word On The Street project went so well that we are now running it in London. Véronique Mistiaen, lecturer and human rights journalist, led the second session, 'How to tell your own story'. you can read more about the project on her blog, The Right Human. Check out the trainees' blog to follow their progress from newbie to news hound.Our trainees' blog...
23 June 2015
Will you use your admin ninja skills to help a unique small charity working to support homeless people?Download PDF (141KB)
23 June 2015
Do you want to use your fundraising skills to support a unique small charity working to support homeless people?Download PDF (146KB)
23 June 2015
Will you donate your a journalism or photography skills to help the homeless people we work to support?Download PDF (146KB)
04 November 2014
Our Glasgow-based Word on the Street team of reporters and photographers – along with London guest writers, who also have experience of the homelessness – has been working hard on a special edition that tells it how it is: benefit sanctions, a cartoon about hostel life and how football can change the world, for starters. The WOTS team is: Iain Alan, Brenda Brown, Brian Dobbie, Jason Kelly, Peter Kelly, Jim Little, Caroline McCue, Alex McKay, Patrick O’Hare and Roddy Woods. Thanks, team!
19 August 2011
Wow.  The Pavement’s Homeless City Guide, which appears in every issue of the magazine, has made it into New York’s Museum of Modern Art. MOMA...
Latest Stories
Homeless fenced offStaff 05 February 2017
A 10ft wooden barrier has been put up outside a former branch of BHS in an apparent bid to stop homeless people sleeping there.
The wall was constructed in the doorway outside the shop on South Street in Exeter, Devon, the Metro reported in January. Workers at the site said it was to stop rough sleepers who had started gathering there since the chain’s collapse in August last year.
It is understood that Duff and Phelps, administrators for BHS, employed a firm from Dartford in Kent to travel nearly 200 miles to the city to erect a wall under instruction from the local authority. Shortly before the barrier was built, the rough sleepers were removed from the building.
A spokesman for Exeter City Council said it was done in response to complaints about anti-social behaviour.
More stories from the latest issue...
Rise in child homelessnessStaff 05 February 2017
Alasdair Codona outside the Scottish Parliament
A homeless charity claim new figures that reveal the number of Scottish children living in temporary accommodation has increased, show the problem is “far from fixed.”
Homeless stats released by the Scottish Government show homeless applications have dropped by three per cent in the last year. Some 17,100 applications were made from April to September 2017.
But Shelter Scotland say the figures also show the number of children living in temporary accommodation has risen by 17 per cent to 826. Overall, there were 10,570 households in temporary accommodation as of 30 September 2016 – an increase of 97 households from 2015.
The charity said the figures were “deeply worrying” and the Scottish Government admitted that the rise was “disappointing. The stats were released just weeks after homeless man Alasdair Codona, who was starving himself to death outside the Scottish Parliament in December, finally agreed to break his fast. He ended his 24-day strike after the Scottish housing minister vowed to introduce a “statutory right” for people to declare themselves homeless.
More stories from the latest issue...
Baby dies in US cold snapStaff 05 February 2017
A baby died in January in freezing temperatures with his homeless mother at a bus stop in Portland.
The baby, found in early January, marks the fifth death on Portland's freezing streets this year. Four homeless people died of exposure in the first 10 days of 2017.
According to US-based Willamette Week (WW), which reported on the baby’s death, it was unclear whether he died of exposure hours after being born outdoors or was stillborn. However WW claims that it obtained a police report that suggested the baby was alive when the mother, who was barefooted and only partially-clothed, stopped a passing commuter. He called emergency services and baby was rushed to hospital but did not survive.
More stories from the latest issue...
Recent tweets
Back to page top
© Copyright 2009-2014 The Pavement. Established 2005 Registered Charity No. 1110656 Scottish Charity Register No. SC043760 ISSN (online) 1757-0484
Disclaimer, gratitude and legal stuff
Contact
RSS
