Home | Poverty and Social Exclusion
Home | Poverty and Social Exclusion
Skip to main content
Log in or register to post comments
Poverty and Social Exclusion
Reporting research, examining policy, stimulating debate
Search form
Search
Main menuHome
Definitions of poverty
PSE research
Living in poverty
Communities
Take part
News and views
Secondary menuAbout us
Contact us
Books to download
Townsend archive
Newsletter archive
Search by subject
Government cuts  Benefits  Inequality  Low pay  Low-income households  Child poverty  Government policy  Poverty measurement  Europe  Poverty forecast  View all subjects
Tweets by @PSE2010
Latest news
Austerity fall on the poorest reveals Bank of England survey
We are used to reports by academics and think tanks examining the consequences of austerity for...
Listening to disabled young people
Promoting the well-being and mental health of all young people is a key aspect of national and...
Tackling the wealth gap
There is much talk about tackling inequality, but little action. This is largely down to a lack of...
Sign up for ourNEWSLETTER
Home
David Donnison interview
Copyright: www.poverty.ac.uk
'you have to move on to look at inequality, you can’t stop with poverty'
Professor David Donnison reflects back on 50 years of poverty research.
Available now in the Townsend archive.
Pie chart
Copyright: PSE
Who are the poor?
Of those who are deprived, most are in work.
Explore new charts and tables on deprivation.
Download the csv files.
Poverty in the UK survey cover
Copyright: PinUK
Open access to a range of documents from the 1968/69 Poverty in the UK landmark survey.
OUT NOW IN THE TOWNSEND ARCHIVE
Includes over 2,500 original questionnaires.
Elderly woman, crutches
Copyright: Rob Bremner/reportdigital.co.uk
21%
turn the heating down even though the house is too cold.
Find out more in the PSE UK final conference presentations.
Job centre Cropped
Copyright: Rex Features
33%
of adults in paid work are in poverty or insecure employment.
'Britain's broken labour market' by Nick Bailey and other PSE research findings in Journal papers
Breadline Britain cover no names
'Brilliant' 'Shocking' 'Indispensable'
Breadline Britain - the rise of mass poverty, by Stewart Lansley and Joanna Mack, asks:
Why over the last thirty years has poverty doubled when the UK is twice as rich as it was?
One World, just £9.99
Find out more in PSE books
Woman with seven children
Copyright: Duncan Philips/reportdigital.co.uk
Austerity fall on the poorest...
The Bank of England has been doing its own evaluation of the impact of austerity and the results reveal that the worst effects are falling on the poorest, children and the sick or disabled. Nick Bailey examines the findings.
Drawing for Improving well being report
Copyright: QUB/HSC
Listening to disabled young people
What constitutes good well-being for disabled young people differs little from that of their non-disabled peers but what is different, argues Grace Kelly, is the high reliance on family/carers for facilitating opportunities for these young people...
Pile of money
Copyright: FreeFoto.com
Tackling the wealth gap
The increasing private ownership of capital is leading to a growing wealth gap. To tackle this skewing of the economy in favour of the rich, Stewart Lansley argues for the creation of social wealth funds with the returns evenly shared across...
The PSE website
This website is part of a major ESRC research project, Poverty and Social Exclusion in the UK (PSE: UK) and offers a comprehensive research and teaching tool. The PSE UK research project is the largest ever study into poverty in the UK. Funded by the Economic and Social Research Council, the research is based on two major surveys carried out in 2012 and two qualitative research studies.
The research found high levels of deprivation across the UK with severe impacts on people's lives. In the PSE Research section you will find full details. Under dissemination, you can find a quick overview in some of the media coverage, including artciles published by team members, or you can find a guide to the many journal papers published.  Details of the two books published to date and other books coming up can be found under books. In this PSE research section you will also find details of the main Reports publsihed, including the first report, The Impoverishment of the UK, and short accessible summaries under Key findings. Full data from the attitudes to necessities survey is now available to investigate under Explore the data and the top level results for the living standards survey can be found under Questionnaire
The PSE UK research explores poverty by directly examining people's living standards. Definitions of poverty provides an overview of different approaches to poverty. The PSE UK research draws on and develops the consensual method.
As well as providing full details of the PSE UK research project, the website includes video testimonies of living in poverty and details of projects encouraging collaboration between research and community groups as well as a searchable digest of news and views from 2011 to 2014, including specially commissioned articles on poverty and social exclusion in the UK.
Do contact us, if you have suggestions for improvements.
The Townsend archive
The PSE website is pleased to host the Townsend archive.
Over 2,500 original questionnaires and hundreds of other documents from the 1968/69 Poverty in the UK survey - now available.
UN day for the eradication of poverty
To mark the 30th anniversary, in October, 2016, the UN focused on “Moving from humiliation and exclusion to participation”. Read the President of Ireland’s, Michael D. Higgins, speech.
What do you think are the necessities of life?
Try the online version of the PSE: UK 2012 attitudes to necessities survey.
Tweet
Log in or register to post comments
PSE:UK is a major collaboration between the University of Bristol, Heriot-Watt University, The Open University, Queen's University Belfast, University of Glasgow and the University of York working with the National Centre for Social Research and the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency. ESRC Grant RES-060-25-0052.
Terms and conditions
