Welcome | Researching Asylum in London
Print this page
Welcome
Welcome
MenuHome
Advanced Search
Add a Resource
About Us
Explore by ThemeAsylum law & policy
Housing and welfare support
Arts & Media
Health
Community
Education & Employment
Specific Needs
Explore byLocation
Select a borough
Enlarge Map
Welcome back to Researching Asylum in London (RAL). With support from the School of Social Sciences at City University London, RAL has been relaunched. Over the coming months this independent database of research on refugee and asylum issues relevant to London will be updated with new material. The aim of Researching Asylum in London is to make research more accessible to service providers, academics, journalists and policy-makers working in the field. The database contains summaries of research including the aims, methodology, key findings, conclusions and recommendations, with the facility to search via themes, populations, London Boroughs or simply by keywords or phrases.
As new research becomes available, the RAL UPDATE, a bulletin that brings you up-to-date with the latest additions to our RAL database, and a separate statistics update, will be published on a regular basis.
We're delighted to welcome you back to this resource, and we look forward to announcing new initiatives that enhance the quality of asylum and refugee research in the UK.
Dr Christopher McDowell, Director, RAL
Ronja Lykke Kastberg, Research Coordinator, RAL
Search:
Search form
Search
Advanced search
Advanced search
A-Z Topics
How to Search RAL
Read about our summaries and the different ways you can search the database
Explore by Refugee population
Research relating to specific refugee and asylum seeker groups in London is searchable by nationality and ethnicity.
© hottwist flickr.com; www.ukstudentlife.com; JRAWLS flickr.com
A Brief history of asylum in London provides context to the research included on the RAL database. This short piece gives a basic outline of the history of refugee migration to London, focusing on settlement patterns, reception and figures.
London asylum statistics summarises the statistical information taken from home office statistics relating to the asylum seeker and refugee population in the capital.
Copyright © 2014 Researching Asylum in London
Crafted by Tincan
