Latest news | Manchester City Council
We use cookies on your computer or mobile device to help make this website better. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Otherwise, we'll assume you're OK to continue. Don't show this message again ×
Manchester City Council
Search this site
Accessibility
Sign in
Register
HomeLatest news
Latest news
1 in 2 million - Manchester man wins learning award for using digital skills to turn his life around
Friday, 17 February 2017
Bertram Henry won the Inspirational Learner Award from tech-for-good charity Good Things Foundation, as part of their 2 Millionth Learner Awards.
UK’s first LGBT older person’s community planned for Manchester
Thursday, 16 February 2017
The ambition to create a community aimed at older lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people has been announced today by Manchester City Council.
Arcadia Library and Leisure Centre celebrates first birthday with big bash
Wednesday, 15 February 2017
Levenshulme’s Arcadia Library and Leisure Centre is celebrating its first birthday with a free fun-filled afternoon of crafts, games and exercise for people of all ages.
Three become one as major developments get under way on Oxford Road Corridor
Thursday, 09 February 2017
Three major developments transforming the Oxford Road corridor mark major milestones from next week, at the same time as a five-week road closure ends.
Have your voice heard at Manchester LGBT Question Time
Wednesday, 08 February 2017
An open event at Manchester Town Hall will give attendees the opportunity to become involved in a Question Time style debate on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) issues.
Pretenders icon Chrissie Hynde visits Central Library
Wednesday, 08 February 2017
Rock legend Chrissie Hynde dropped into Manchester Central Library for a tour of the Oasis:DNA exhibition.
Selective Licensing area proposed for south Manchester - have your say!
Tuesday, 07 February 2017
A consultation has opened today to hear the public’s views on a new Selective Licensing scheme in south Manchester that will help improve private sector housing standards.
Walliams and Kinney are top of the charts for Manchester's bookworms in 2016
Monday, 06 February 2017
Nine of the top ten books borrowed from Manchester libraries in 2016 were children’s titles, new figures show.
New affordable housing boost for North Manchester
Monday, 06 February 2017
56 high-quality new homes will be built across a number of small sites previously used for housing in Higher Blackley, Moston and Collyhurst by March 2018.
Princess Road 30mph speed limit trial approved
Friday, 03 February 2017
A proposal to reduce the speed limit on Princess Road from 40 to 30mph was approved by Manchester City Council’s Executive on Wednesday 8 February.
Bishop of Manchester rededicates historic cross as St Peter’s Square nears completion
Thursday, 02 February 2017
The Bishop of Manchester, David Walker, has led a ceremony to bless the historic St Peter’s Square cross, as the square’s transformation celebrates its final phase.
The Homeless Library exhibition launches at Central Library
Wednesday, 01 February 2017
An exhibition created by homeless people from Greater Manchester has opened at Central Library.
City Centre Review identifies improvements
Wednesday, 01 February 2017
Manchester City Council’s Executive will consider the findings of a major City Centre Review when it meets on Wednesday 8 February.
How can life go on? Manchester marks Holocaust Memorial Day
Friday, 27 January 2017
On Holocaust Memorial Day (HMD), Manchester youngsters learnt about the horrific atrocities suffered by victims during World War II and subsequent genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia and Darfur.
First-ever blueprint for public health in Greater Manchester launched
Friday, 27 January 2017
*New public health plan for Greater Manchester set to help every individual and community to lead happier and healthier lives.
The famous fountain flows again in Piccadilly Gardens!
Tuesday, 24 January 2017
The huge project to repair Manchester’s famous Piccadilly Gardens fountain is now complete.
Manchester celebrates funding success to boost affordable homes across the city
Monday, 23 January 2017
Schemes to create homes that are affordable for Manchester people have been granted more than £45million the City Council can now confirm.
Abracadabra! Magical Manchester Day is back!
Friday, 20 January 2017
The city-wide celebration of Manchester is back this coming June ready to transform the city centre with a theme that is all about magic…
Free city centre parking on offer this weekend
Thursday, 19 January 2017
Shoppers and visitors to Manchester city centre are being given the chance to enjoy free on-street parking this weekend.
Start Up Day could help get your business moving
Monday, 16 January 2017
Budding entrepreneurs are invited to receive business advice from experts and hear their inspiring stories at Start Up Day, at Manchester Central Library.
Last chance - don't miss Monday's deadline to apply for your child's school place
Friday, 13 January 2017
Deadline for applications 5 pm on Monday 16 January
Take a tour of the Town Hall... as you've never seen it before
Friday, 13 January 2017
Mancunians are being offered a rare chance to explore behind-the-scenes at Manchester Town Hall, in one of a special series of guided tours.
Manchester's Factory gets the go-ahead
Thursday, 12 January 2017
Planning permission granted, funding confirmed, and operator announced.
Manchester to lead the way in housing affordability
Friday, 06 January 2017
A new plan to accelerate the delivery of affordable homes in the city and create up to 2,000 every year has been unveiled by Manchester City Council.
Roads revolution - more than £100m to be invested in radically improving Manchester's roads
Wednesday, 04 January 2017
Manchester City Council has announced proposals to dramatically increase investment in maintaining the city's roads over the next five years.
Budget proposals for 2017-20 announced
Wednesday, 04 January 2017
Manchester City Council has published details of its budget proposals for the next three years and is inviting people in the city to have their say on them.
Factory will power £1.1 billion boost for Manchester's economy
Friday, 23 December 2016
An update report about Manchester City Centre’s new St. John’s neighbourhood and progress on Factory will go the Council’s Executive on Wednesday 11 January 2017.
Future stars kick off their taekwondo dreams at Olympic training base
Thursday, 22 December 2016
A Manchester couple are coaching local children to become the taekwondo stars of the future - at the training base which is home to Team GB’s current crop of Olympic medallists.
Design standards to set the bar for all new housing in Manchester
Thursday, 22 December 2016
Manchester City Council’s executive has approved the design and quality guide for all new housing across the city.
Now Brownies have a new badge of honour – with special Manchester Medal to help older people to beat loneliness
Wednesday, 21 December 2016
Any aspiring Brownie will tell you that part of her Promise is to think of others before herself and do a good turn every day.
Manchester City Council
Contact us
Site map
Emergency contacts
Terms & Conditions
Complaints
Privacy & Cookies
© 2017 Manchester City Council
Powered by Jadu Content Management
Tell us what you think about our site...
