SOS Children's Villages United Kingdom - No child should grow up alone
About Us
SOS Projects
Get Inspired
Get Involved
Individuals
Corporates
Trusts and Foundations
Schools & Communities
Other ways to help
News
Ways to Give
Monthly Donation
Sponsor a Child
Single Donations
Sponsor a Village
SOS MAYDAY
Friends of SOS
Donate FAQs
Donate now
SOS Children's
Villages
No child should
grow up alone
SOS Children's
Villages
No child should
grow up alone
About us
SOS Children’s Villages is the world’s largest charity working with orphaned and abandoned children. We work towards every child growing up in a loving family home, whether it is with the child’s biological family or a new SOS family, so that they flourish and reach their full potential.
Find out More
SOS Projects
Find out More
Get inspired
Your support can change the life of vulnerable children. Whether you create your own fundraising event, sign up for one of our events, want to become an SOS ambassador or would like to find out about volunteer opportunities.
Thank you for choosing to support SOS Children's Villages UK!
Campaigns
Make a Mother’s Day card
Show your mum how much she matters by making your very own Mother's Day card from our template.
Read Article
Campaigns
SOS Mother
The love of a mother for a child who has been orphaned or abandoned is irreplaceable. SOS Childre...
Read Article
Campaigns
Mums Matter
SOS Children’s Villages empowers women across the world to raise generations of orphaned and ab...
Read Article
View all stories
Explore SOS
Latest news
Here you'll find the latest news about SOS Children's Villages' work around the world. We also report on issues related to global health and education, development and poverty, and their impact on the communities we support.
Find out more
Get Involved
Without our supporters, we could not do this. Whether you are an individual, a school, a company, a trust or a foundation, here you can discover all the best ways to fundraise for us and raise awareness of our work.
Find out more
Donate
You can help children who have lost their parents. They may have been orphaned by AIDS, natural disaster or conflict. Poverty may have forced their parents to give them up, or they may have been separated from their family by war.
Find out more
Connect with us
Donate Now
Contact Us
Terms & conditions
Privacy policy
Jobs
Subscribe to our Newsletter
SOS Children's Villages UK is a registered charity, number 1069204. We are a company limited by guarantee registered in England, number 3346676
