Publication directory | Disability charity Scope UK
Skip to content
Accessibility
Helpline 0808 800 3333 or contact us
SearchMenu
For disability information call free
0808 800 3333 or contact us
For disability information call free
0808 800 3333
Anything else? Other ways to contact us
Search for:
Home
Support and information
Get involved
Online community
About us
Donate
Home / About us / Policy and research / Publication directory
Publication directory
1 - 10 of 39 results
Page 1 2 3 4
Search for publications:
This link will open in a new window.
Leading my life my way
young disabled people’s experiences of using services to live independent lives
Andy McKeown
This research investigates the specific experiences of young disabled people using social care services to live independently and the barriers they face in different areas of their lives. It explores how poor quality service provision and advice and information can have a negative impact on young disabled people.
This link will open in a new window.
Disabled people's experiences of social care
Findings from the Better Care Project 2014-15
Grayston, Rose (2015)
This research reveals the crisis in social care for disabled people as a result of chronic underfunding in the social care system.
Types - care crisis, experiences, social care
This link will open in a new window.
Our support, Our lives
Joining up the public services used by disabled people
Davies, A. (March 2015)
Joined up support can make it easier for working-age disabled people to live independently. Is it right that when we talk about integrated care, we think primarily, sometimes exclusively, of older people? This report looks at how the next government can realise the full potential of integrated support for disabled adults.
Types - disabled people, health, independent living, integration, joined up support, social care
This link will open in a new window.
Driving down the extra costs disabled people face
Interim report
This is the interim report of the Extra Costs Commission. It provides evidence on the problem of extra costs faced by disabled people and their families, and presents the Commission's early thinking for driving down these costs.
Types - Commission, disabled people, Extra Costs, Interim Report
This link will open in a new window.
Extra Costs Commission
Interim technical report
This report contains more detail about the research used to inform the Extra Costs Commission's interim report.
Types - Commission, disabled people, Extra Costs, Interim Technical Report
This link will open in a new window.
Disabled people and financial well-being
Credit and debt
In this pamphlet we examine how disabled people are more likely to turn to high-risk lenders, and struggle with debt. Drawing from in-depth research conducted by Ipsos MORI, we outline recommendations for policy and practice.
Citation: Brawn E (2013) Disabled people and financial-well-being - credit and debt, Scope policy briefing
Types - adults, financial well-being and welfare, policy briefing, research briefing
This link will open in a new window.
Current attitudes towards disabled people
In 2014, disabled people continue to face challenges in many areas of their lives. Many of these challenges involve attitudes. But what do attitudes towards disabled people currently look like? This report brings together a range of research that Scope has commissioned over the last two years to understand current attitudes towards disability and disabled people.
Citation: Aiden H and McCarthy A (2014) Current attitudes towards disabled people. Scope report
Types - adults, attitudes, living standards, report
This link will open in a new window.
Disabled families in flux
Removing barriers to family life
The second of Scope's annual Disabilism Audit series, this report draws on the experiences of families with disabled children in the UK in 2009. It represents their lives on a day-to-day basis and suggests areas for policy consideration.
Citation: Pyer M. Bush M (2009) Disabled families in flux: Removing barriers to family life, Scope report
Types - children, fulfilling family lives, parents, report
This link will open in a new window.
A million futures
Halving the disability employment gap
This report is the third in a series that looks in depth at the challenges with disabled people’s living standards. It argues that with the right interventions, a million more disabled people could be in work, and sets out steps towards making this vision a reality.
Citation: Trotter R (2014) A million futures: halving the disability employment gap. Scope report
Types - adults, living standards, report, work and volunteering
This link will open in a new window.
Better living, higher standards
Improving the lives of disabled people by 2020
This report launches Scope’s campaign to improve disabled people’s living standards.
Types - independent living and social care, report, society, standards
1 - 10 of 39 results
Page 1 2 3 4
Type:
All types
adults 25
children 2
parents 2
report 24
policy briefing 4
research briefing 3
financial well-being and welfare 8
executive summary 2
independent living and social care 15
learning and skills 1
disabled leaders and role models 1
fulfilling family lives 3
work and volunteering 4
society 2
standards 2
Living Standards 2
attitudes 1
bill 1
care 1
eligibility 1
social 1
Commission 2
disabled people 3
Extra costs 2
interim report 1
interim technical report 1
independent living 1
joined up support 1
health 1
integration 1
social care 2
Disability 1
Enabling Work 1
Employment 1
Work 1
care crisis 1
experiences 1
Popular content
Support and information
Online community
News and opinion
Find Scope shops
Get involved
About Scope
Jobs at Scope
Media centre
Connect with Scope
Find out how @Scope is helping people to feel more confident about disability. Help us #EndTheAwkward http://bit.ly/2egoZQx
Find out how Scope drives change across society in this video about our work
Our online community
Join our forum for parents and carers of disabled people
Get advice on PIP, ESA, DLA and other benefits
Talk to our community experts
Call our free helpline (Open 9am - 5pm weekdays)
0808 800 3333
helpline@scope.org.uk
We provide free, independent and impartial information and support on the issues that matter to disabled people and their families.
Sign up for our email
Receive all the latest news and information about Scope
Email signup
Sign up
Accessibility | Privacy | Cookies | Terms |
Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Site created by
Scope is a registered charity number. 208231. Registered as a company limited by guarantee number. 520866 (England & Wales). Registered office: Scope, 6 Market Road, London, N7 9PW. VAT registration number 805 1569 39
Copyright © Scope 2016
