March For the Alternative: Jobs, Growth, Justice | 26 March 2011: March and rally against the cuts
CONTACT US
EMAIL UPDATES
March For the Alternative: Jobs, Growth, Justice
The day in photos
Photo wall
Videos from the rally
The campaign continues
Campaign actions
There is an alternative
Aims of the march
Messages of support
1st April: All Together for the NHS Day
Posted in
Resources on
March 31, 2011
After 26 March, the next big date in the campaign calendar is 1st April. NHS supporters around the country will be lobbying their MPs, at local events and individually for All Together for the NHS Day.
The NHS as we know it is under threat from drastic changes contained in Andrew Lansley’s Health and Social Care Bill. The bill has now cleared the committee stage, and will soon be going on to its third reading in the Commons.
It’s vitally important that we engage with MPs now, to make them aware their constituents are worried about the bill.
→ Read the full story
| 1 Comment
Placard amnesty this Saturday
Posted in
Resources on
March 31, 2011
Goldsmiths art students were out in force on the March for the Alternative, in a partnership project with the Museum of London. Students handed out placards with historical protest imagery at the start of the march, and organised collections of placards and props at the rally, hoping to gather a record of creativity in popular protest, to use at the Museum.
The team had loads of placards donated on the day, but are still after more of people’s creative protest art. If you’ve got a placard you’d like to donate, they’ll be holding another collection at the Museum of London on Saturday 2nd April.
→ Read the full story
| Comments Off
Lost property – calling Adrian from Birmingham and someone who’s lost their specs
Posted in
March logistics on
March 28, 2011
If you’re called Adrian and came to the march from Birmingham then we have your wallet with two bank cards and a library card. We suspect it probably had more in when you lost it but we can return what’s left. Please email us.
And if you’ve lost a pair of Eye Time glasses with metallic blue grey frames, we’ve got them too.
But if you’re a government minister, we’re afraid you can’t have your support back.
→ Read the full story
| Comments Off
Photos from the March for the Alternative
Posted in
Resources on
March 28, 2011
Thanks to flickr user Steve McInnery for setting up a flickr group for march photos – which now has over 1,000 pictures uploaded to it. Check out how people who were there saw it by scrolling the photo wall above.
→ Read the full story
| Comments Off
Here’s some coverage we liked
Posted in
Media on
March 27, 2011
Lots of interesting coverage and discussion of the march today and yesterday.
Here are some links we like (without necessarily endorsing all the arguments) – and of course there’s lots more good stuff that we won’t have seen.
→ Read the full story
| 5 Comments
Older Entries »
Marching for an Alternative to cuts
The March for the Alternative saw up to half a million gather in London on Sat 26 March to protest the government's plans for fast, deep public spending cuts.
Links
All Together for Public Services
1st April: All Together for the NHS
DPAC Virtual Protest Map
False Economy
Going to Work
Robin Hood Tax
Cuts Watch @ Touchstone
Stronger Unions
TUC
Save Our Services
Follow Us!
TwitterFollow us on Twitter
© TUC 2011
