Stop Repossession, Facing Repossession, Avoiding & Stopping Home Repossession
Home
Repossession Process
Stage 1: Missed Payments
Stage 2: Solicitors Notice
Stage 3: Proceedings Begin
Stage 4: Court Hearing
Stage 5: Eviction Notice
Mortgage Arrears Help
What to do if mortgage cannot be paid
Informing lender of repayment problems
What to do if lender wants to repossess your home
What you need to avoid
What to do if you are struggling with other debts
Repossession FAQs
Government Help
Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI)
Homeowners Mortgage Support
Mortgage Rescue Schemes
Mortgage Debt after Repossession
Independent Help
Seeking free and independent financial advice
Stop Reposessions
Home Repossession
What is Home Repossession?
Why is it neccessary?
Who undertakes it?
Repossession Process
Process Overview
1. Missed Payments
2. Solicitors Notice
3. Proceedings Begin
4. Court Hearing
5. Eviction Notice
Mortgage Arrears and Repossessions
Mortgage payments
Lenders and repossessions
What to avoid
Struggling with other debts
After a Repossession
What happens to Repossessed Properties
Costs after Possession
Credit Rating
Repossession Advice
Sell & Rent Back Schemes
What is sales and rent back?
Why sale and rent back?
Home Repossession
Welcome to Stop-Repossessions.co.uk
Thousands of people face home repossession every year. There could be a variety of reasons for this – failing to meet mortgage arrears, divorcing or separating, constrained by secured or unsecured debt. Taking positive action to stop repossession is what this website is all about – we hope we can help you.
Do you want to stop repossession?
Stopping repossession is possible in most cases, no matter what stage your repossession case has reached. Repossession can be stressful and upsetting – don't worry, we are here to help you stop repossession as quickly and effectively as possible. This stop repossession website could be the first step in preventing repossession of your home. Being proactive about your debt could help you to improve your situation.
Repossessions News
Libor interest rate may have contributed to repossession levels - Fri, 06 Jul 2012
Doncaster repossession figures causing concern - Wed, 04 Jul 2012
Isle of Wight has low repossession risk - Tue, 03 Jul 2012
More News
About |
Contact |
Disclaimer |
Advertise |
Privacy
© Stop-Repossessions.co.uk, part of Sitefinders Net Ltd 2011. All Rights Reserved.
