Election 2010 Party Manifestos: Tax Credits | Tax Credit Casualties Latest News
Latest News
Election 2010 Party Manifestos: Tax Credits
Paula6th April 2010
At long last, the election has finally been called for 6th May. The big question now is: how are we going to vote?
There are lots of reasons why people make the choices they do when they vote. Some traditionally stick to one party, some look at specific issues, and some the bigger picture.
What we do know is that ‘floating voters’ (the ones who don’t have a traditional party allegiance) are the voters who make a significant difference.
Interestingly recent studies show that these ‘floating voters’ are more likely to be women then men.
So to try and help those of you who don’t yet know how to vote, but reckon Tax Credits is a big enough issue to sway your vote, (and let’s face it with an overpayment of nearly £4k I’m going to be swayed by the guy who says ‘we’ll write that off’!), TCC thought we would try to establish a clear picture from the main parties to inform you of their positions.
In July 2009, Graham wrote to the three main Party leaders, asking them to tell us what their election manifestos contained with regard to Tax Credits and Tax Credit overpayments. Here’s the letter we sent to each Party leader:
20th July 2009
Dear Mr. [Brown, Cameron, Clegg]
I am writing to you in my capacity as Chair of Tax Credit Casualties (TCC), a voluntary organisation run by members, for members. TCC was established in 2005 to provide free advice and guidance on disputing the recovery of non-fraudulent Tax Credit overpayments, and to lobby for fundamental change on the inherent flaws and inequalities of the Tax Credit system.
There will be a General Election before June 2010. The purpose of this letter is to ask you to inform us, in detail, of the policies the [Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democrat] Party has regarding Tax Credits generally, and Tax Credit overpayments specifically. Please would you also state in your reply whether any relevant policies will be included in your Election Manifesto, therefore representing a binding promise to the Electorate.
This letter and your response will be published on our website, www.TaxCC.org, in order to provide information that will help our members decide which Party should receive their vote in the forthcoming General Election.
Should the [Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democrat] Party not have any specific policies or Election Manifesto promises regarding Tax Credit overpayments, we would ask that you address this as a matter of priority.
The repayment of  Tax Credit overpayments ruins lives, most often those of the poorest who have the greatest need. This is compounded by the systemic maladministration of the Tax Credit system by HMRC, as well as their general incompetence and inability to communicate effectively, whether with their ‘Customers’ or between their own departments.
Repeatedly, recommendations published by The Parliamentary Ombudsman have been ignored, while poorly planned and badly implemented changes to the Tax Credit system have proved largely ineffective. Over one million claims, approximately 20% of all claims, are still overpaid each year! I am sure that there is not one MP who is unaware of the overpayment problems amongst their Constituents. Calls made by MPs to their Tax Credit hotline averaged over 17,300 a year between April 2003 and April 2007.
Every year, more and more families want to exit from the Tax Credit system because of the problems they have had, both with overpayments and in their dealings with HMRC. Yet they find that there is no way out; firstly because a large overpayment would be generated and have to be repaid if they left the system at that time, and secondly because there seems to be no way for claimants to be removed from the Tax Credit computer system. These claimants end up trapped within a system that has caused them varying degrees of trauma, when all they want to do is escape from that system.
I have deliberately not weighed down this letter with overpayment victims stories, but suffice to say that our website and associated internet forum receive new members every day. Some of their stories are truly tragic, while others cause deep dismay and anger at how an organisation such as HMRC could have become a shadow of what it once was, in both efficiency and morality. There is yet more anger and frustration because of how those in positions of authority have repeatedly refused to address and rectify the overpayment problem, when they have a duty of care to their Electorate.
In the first 4 years of operation, a total of over 7 million Tax Credit claims were overpaid by £6.152 billion pounds. Tax Credit Casualties believe that it is time for the Tax Credit overpayment problem to be addressed once and for all. Several million overpayment victims would echo that belief, and they represent a very significant number of potential votes.
Thank you. We look forward to your reply.
A straightforward enough letter, don’t you think?
Read the Liberal Democrat response
Read the Conservative Party response
Read the Labour Party response
Categories: Election 2010 | Top | Latest News Main Page
There is one comment about “Election 2010 Party Manifestos: Tax Credits”:
Comment by Mr Coombe at 6:01 pm on 15th December 2010
I have been waiting for over 8 weeks and still no further towards getting a claim sorted out.. I became legal custodian of my 2 children after a case of neglect against their mother who at the time of writing was still claiming for them – letters from social services etc have gone off to them and all paperwork has been filed correctly and with utmost haste on my part.
These agencies are simply kicking their heels and wading through red tape, all the time giving me static for trying to forward my claim – this whole debacle includes a claim for child benefit as well (still waiting – 8 weeks), both are now holding up housing benefit payments (8 weeks) and getting money back for childcare (8 weeks) I am paying through a job that was once fulltime, now it is “when i can get there” due to the sheer amount of queing to get told the same s**t, meetings and wasted phone calls…
It stinks and quite frankly I wish they would just consolidate all the information with one agency with one case worker and just be done with the utter bol***ks that I have had to endure trying to get this far with my claim… at present I sit on the “waiting to be processed pile”….
Tax credits are more of a hinderance to providing a better quality of life for my kids and I reckon I would be dealt with quicker if I threw my job and just sat on arse for 40+ hourse a week instead of trying to be role model and a working (tax paying) parent to my kids…
Top
Top | Latest News Main Page
Home
Latest News
How to Dispute an Overpayment
Research Library
Voices of the Victims
All About TCC
Contact Us
JUST ARRIVED HERE & NOT SURE WHERE TO START?
See the FLOWCHART on our HOME PAGEto guide you to the right place.
Who We Are: Tax Credit Casualties (TCC) is a voluntary, unfunded, not for profit UK organisation run by members for members. We offer free advice on how to dispute unfair overpayments based on our own experiences, the experiences of other claimants and HMRC guidelines.
Our Standards: TCC was established to provide advice and guidance on disputing recovery of non-fraudulent tax credit overpayments, and to lobby for fundamental change on the inbuilt flaws and inequalities of the tax credit system. TCC operate in a professional manner and endeavour to give accurate and appropriate advice based on information provided by members. TCC endeavour to respond to members as quickly and efficiently as possible, given the voluntary nature of the organisation and limited resources available. TCC is an inclusive organisation and will treat all members in a fair and equitable manner.
Disclaimer: Please note that we are not tax professionals and are working on a voluntary basis, unpaid, in our free time. Between us, we have a lot of experience and knowledge in this area, gained over the last few years of supporting victims and helping them fight for justice and their rights. Whilst TCC provide guidance and information on how to handle disputes, and even provide an advocacy service in some instances, neither TCC as an organisation nor any participating members are responsible or liable for outcomes of disputes, which remain wholly the remit of HMRC, the Adjudicator and/or the Parliamentary Ombudsman, as appropriate and dependent on the stage of dispute. We cannot take any responsibility for decisions made by HMRC, The Parliamentary Ombudsman, The Adjudicator, or any other organisation regarding claimants cases. Legislation, operating practices and individual cases change all the time, and while we aim to be professional and accurate at all times, please understand the circumstances we are working under and accept our support, guidance and information in the sprit it is offered; goodwill and camaraderie.
Copyright © 2005-2014 Tax Credit Casualties
Website by Exclusive Website Services
