UKAAF - Welcome to the Website
UKAAF
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
Constitution
Board
Organisation
Sections
Subject Groups
Directory of Member Services
News & Events
Events
Membership
Apply Online
Members’ Area
Contact Us
FAQs
Search for:
Home
Welcome to the UKAAF website
Welcome to the UK Association for Accessible Formats, an industry association which is:
Setting standards and promoting best practice for quality accessible information based on user needs
Enabling businesses and organisations to deliver a quality service to meet the needs of people with print impairments
Because format quality matters.
Accessible formats are alternatives to printed information, used by blind and partially sighted people, or others with a print impairment. These accessible formats include large print, audio, braille, electronic text, and accessible images amongst others.
These accessible formats must be of a high quality if they are to be legible, usable and meaningful to the people they’re intended for.
Find out about and contribute to best practice, and equip yourself with the skills and knowledge you need to deliver – or demand – best practice in accessible format production.
Service providers: UKAAF helps businesses and organisations understand how to meet the needs of customers and clients with print impairments, and how to source and provide quality accessible formats like large print, audio, braille and more.
Transcribers: UKAAF helps those creating accessible format materials by sharing best practice guidelines for the production of quality accessible formats, and by promoting transcription services.
End-users: UKAAF helps people with print impairments by collecting their views and sharing them with service providers and transcribers, so they know how to meet users’ needs.
With thanks to our sustaining members
The RNIB Logo
RNIB is the leading charity offering information, support and advice to almost two million people with sight loss.
UK Association for Accessible Formats
Search for:
Minimum Standards
General Guidance
Audio
Braille
UEB
Standards
Braille Standards Archive
General Information
Mailing Lists
Links
Large Print
E-file Formats
Moon
Accessible Images
Music
Exams
UKAAF Services
Quality Assessment Scheme
UAG Post Card
Toggle High ContrastToggle GreyscaleToggle Font size
UKAAF Tweets
RT @RNIB: We loved watching
#NotesOnBlindness tonight. A groundbreaking film about a remarkable man.
📼 Catch up on iPlayer: https://t.co/… - about 3 days ago
RT @PathstoLiteracy: Does anyone know if there are #braille designs available for @Minecraft @TVI_Adam @TVI_ting @neal_at @JesTVIOandM @Sen… - about 3 days ago
Login StatusYou are not currently logged in.Username:Password: Remember Me» Lost your Password?
Proudly powered by WordPress
