UKDPC
UKDPC uk drug policy commission
Bringing evidence and analysis together to inform UK drug policy
Search the site
HomeOur FindingsWho We WereMediaContact Us
The UK Drug Policy Commission has now finished its work. It ran between 2007 and 2012 as an independent body that provided objective analysis of the evidence concerning drug policy and practice. This site hosts all of UKDPC's publications and other information about its work.
page page page
A Fresh Approach to Drugs
The final report of the UK Drug Policy Commisison
UK drug policy: how to make it better
Key findings from research into drug policy governance
Conference on the future of drug policy
Click here to watch video of conference sessions
Key Reports
A Fresh Approach to Drugs: the final report of the UK Drug Policy CommissionIn this report, UKDPC proposes a radical rethink of how we structure our response to drug problems. It analyses the evidence for how policies and interventions could be improved, with recommendations for policymakers and practitioners to address the new and established challenges associated with drug use.
How to make drug policy better: key findings from UKDPC research into drug policy governanceThis study of drug policy governance involved a wide range of people including current and former ministers, parliamentarians, and senior civil servants. It has identified areas where adopting new processes or structures could help to increase the effectiveness of drug policy.
Dealing with the stigma of drugs: a guide for journalistsThe stigma attached to drug users and the effect that has on them, their families and society is rarely reported. But the media can play an important role in increasing public understanding about the nature of the drug addiction and ways to overcome it. This guide for journalists sets out to explain the problem and suggest how the media can help.
Charting New Waters: Delivering drug policy at a time of radical reform and financial austerityThe structures for addressing the problems associated with illicit drugs in England are experiencing an unprecedented level of change. This report looks at how these reforms, combined with budget cuts, could affect the delivery of drug services.
Moving towards real impact drug enforcement: strategy and policy implicationsThis briefing considers the role of enforcement agencies in the reduction of harms caused by illicit drug use and drug markets and related enforcement activity. It presents a ‘Real Impact Drug Enforcement’ approach, backed up by case study examples and practical tools.
Working towards recovery: getting problem drug users into jobsUp to 80% of problem drug users are unemployed, yet work has been shown to be an important component of rehabilitation and reintegration into society, reducing the likelihood of relapse. This report reaches a wide range of conclusions on getting problem drug users ‘fit for the job’ and addressing employers’ concerns.
contact us
United Kingdom Drug Policy Commission is registered as a charity in England and Wales no. 1118203 UKDPC is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales no. 5823583
Produced by Acumen Third Sector
