Pensions | Knowledge Base | UNISON National
UNISON National
Join UNISON
Get Help
Member Benefits
Regions
Cymru/Wales
East Midlands
Eastern
Greater London
North West
Northern
Northern Ireland
Scotland
South East
South West
West Midlands
Yorkshire and Humberside
My UNISON
Branch Finder
Quick contact details update
Other sites
British Sign Language
Skills for Schools
Digital
Stars In Our Schools
More UNISON
Search for:
Skip to content
the public service union
Get help now
0800 0 857 857
Follow us			Twitter
Facebook
Youtube
Menu
Home
Get help
Knowledge base
Pensions
Home
About
What we do
How we work
Governance
Jobs
Contact UNISON
News
Articles
General secretary’s blog
Magazine
Media centre
Stay up to date
Events
Policy motions database
Conferences
Campaign events
Courses
Demonstrations and lobbies
Seminars and meetings
Campaigns
Where you work
Local government
Health
Education
Police & justice
Community
Water, env’t & transport
Energy
Private contractors
Regions
Get help
Support and services
Knowledge base
Online enquiries
Get involved
Learning for you
In your workplace
Challenge discrimination
Grow the movement
Campaign for change
Pensions
UNISON works to defend good pension schemes and improve and promote affordable, decent pensions for all our members, wherever you work.
Read: latest pensions newsletter
Sorry!
Our online forms use javascript to enable advanced features such as saving and continuing later, and to improve security. Please either enable javascript for this site or contact your IT department for further help.
Pensions updates
Sign up for updates from the UNISON pensions team
First name*Last name*Email*
Local Government Pension Scheme
The Local Government Pension Scheme is collectively the largest public sector pension scheme in the UK with 4.6 million members and is available to any employee under the age of 75 working for an employer participating under the scheme.
Read more
NHS Pension Scheme
The NHS Pension Scheme is a voluntary pension scheme available to all NHS employees. Benefits are paid in addition to the basic state pension. From 1 April 2015 a new NHS Pension Scheme will come into operation.
Read more
Occupational pensions and auto-enrolment
There are a wide range of pensions available so its important you understand your options in order to get the best deal for your retirement. If you feel you are not getting the right advice from your employer, speak to your local UNISON rep.
Read more
Pensions governance
Pensions governance refers to the way pensions are invested and managed and includes such issues as how funds are invested, the composition of investments, decision making processes, socially responsible investment and ensuring sufficient assets exist to meet pension liabilities as they fall due.
Read more
Retirement and the state pension
The state pension is changing from 6 April 2016 which if you’re under State Pension Age, should lead to you building up a bigger state pension. This comes at a cost though. Read on for more information on state pensions”
Read more
Resources
Women and Pensions A UNISON briefing
6 February 2017
Women and Pensions. What can you do to get a decent income in retirement? A UNISON briefing
Fighting for a fair transition to the new state pension age (WASPI)
31 January 2017
An A5 leaflet outlining UNISON’s support for the WASPI campaign to get a fair transition to the new state pension age for hundreds of thousands of women
What’s happening to Exit Payments in the public sector?
28 September 2016
Briefing on government reforms to exit payments (including redundancy payments) in the public sector.
UNISON submission to the DWP Independent Review of State Pension Age September 2016
28 September 2016
including a supporting document in the form of our submission to the Working Longer Review Group
Local Government Pension Scheme Funds Guide
8 September 2016
This 12-page newsletter explains the complex world of money and investment relating to the Local Government Pensions Scheme funds. It is detailed and aimed at those who are interested in the complex world of pension funds rather than all members. Max order 30 – or email stockorders@unison.co.uk
UNISON responds to Centrica pension scheme proposals.
17 May 2016
Centrica is planning on making changes to its defined benefit pension schemes from March 2017. Read UNISON’s response
State Pension Update April 2016
16 February 2016
The new state pension from 6 April 2016 – what does it mean for members’ NI contributions?
Draft branch and region submission to LGPS investment consultation
2 February 2016
Consultation submission for Branches/individuals for LGPS
So what exactly is a Defined Contribution Penson Scheme
23 October 2015
Consultation on Tax Relief 2015 UNISON response (2)
2 October 2015
Consultation on exit payments cap – UNISON’s response
24 September 2015
UNISON’s response to the HM Treasury Consultation on a Public Sector Exit Payment Cap, 2015.
The new state pension: briefing
2 June 2015
This briefing sets out the changes to the State Pension that will affect everyone who is reaching their State Pension Age on or after 6 April 2016
Pension Update March 2015
2 April 2015
Pensions Choice and the 2014 Budget | Road plan for increasing employer contributions | Replacing CPI with an inflation measure more fit for purpose | Flexible retirement options
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Email
More options
Print / Translate
Print page
Translate page
Legal disclaimer
The information contained within this article is not a complete or final statement of the law and is based on the laws of England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
While UNISON has sought to ensure that the information is accurate and up to date, it is not responsible and will not be held liable for any inaccuracies and their consequences, including any loss arising from relying on this information. If you are a UNISON member with a legal problem, please contact your branch or region as soon as possible for advice.
Bargaining guides
For a listing of bargaining guides, factsheets and model agreements go to Negotiating and bargaining
Getting help as a member of UNISON
Can't find the answer you're looking for here? Get help by:
Talking to your representative
Using our online enquiry form
Calling the UNISONdirect call centre
Not a member? Join now
Want to do something more?
Help your colleagues and other members becoming a UNISON rep or workplace contact. Being a UNISON workplace rep gives you the opportunity to:
make a positive difference to people’s work lives
learn new skills and meet new people
help create a fairer society
Get involved in UNISON
Latest news
Time for pension equality
Posted on 16 February 2017
Brewster judgement means pension schemes must look again at their rules, says UNISON
Posted on 8 February 2017
Ministers must stop interfering in council pensions, says UNISON
Posted on 24 October 201624 October 2016
UNISON LGPS petition forces parliamentary debate
Posted on 12 September 201613 September 2016
Herts NHS cash-for-pensions deal is ‘morally wrong’ and ‘legally suspect’, says UNISON
Posted on 12 September 2016
Search in pensions
Quick Links
Join UNISON today
My UNISON
Contact UNISON
Jobs
Media centre
Our statement on modern slavery
UNISON where you work
Local government
Health care
Education
Police and justice
Community
Water, environment and transport
Energy
Private contractors
Regions
Cymru/Wales
East Midlands
Eastern
Greater London
North West
Northern
Northern Ireland
Scotland
South East
South West
West Midlands
Yorkshire & Humberside
Member groups
Black members
Disabled members
LGBT members
Retired members
Women members
Young members
Online tools
Online catalogue
Organising Space
Other sites and sections
British Sign Language (BSL)
International
Skills for Schools
Follow usTwitter
Facebook
Youtube
UNISON, UNISON Centre, 130 Euston Road, London NW1 2AY. Telephone: 0800 0 857 857
© Copyright 2017 Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
×
We use cookies on our website to ensure you find the information you need in the simplest way. By continuing to use our website you are consenting to their use. Find out more about cookies and how we use them.
