Unchosen | Using the power of film to fight modern slavery
Home
Modern Slavery
What is Modern Slavery?
Spot the Signs
Helplines
Films
Film Gallery
Film Competition
Commission a Film
Take Action
Host Your Own Event
Run a Conference
Upcoming Events
Order Our Resources
Films Against Slavery DVDs
About
Aims & Objectives
Our Funders and Partners
Team
Opportunities
Community Activism Award
History
Annual Reports
Latest News
Contact
NEW Unchosen Shop coming soon!New Fact Sheets to download –
Postcards – Films Against Slavery DVDs – Compilation DVD available to order or download soon – please bear with us as we make updates to the website.
Looking to run a Modern Slavery Conference or an Event in 2017? - Unchosen can help youUnchosen can help you run a Conference or an Event in your area to inform others of Modern Slavery.
PreviousNext12
READ LATEST NEWS - updated 16/1/2017
Unchosen uses the power of film to fight Modern Slavery.
We do this through events, conferences, training and workshops. We show the public and frontline professionals how to see Modern Slavery in their community, and take action against it. Get in touch – Unchosen can help you fight Modern Slavery today.
Donate Now
HOW WE CAN SUPPORT YOU
Whether you are an NGO, community organisation or an individual, we can help you to raise awareness of Modern Slavery in your local area.
Latest News
Human trafficker brought back to UK to serve jail term
Posted: January 16, 2017
16/1/17   A 40-year-old man convicted of trafficking women from the Czech Republic to Bristol to work in the sex industry has been brought back to the UK to serve his sentence. Vojtech Paloc was arrested in Liberec in the Czech Republic on Thursday 30 November under a European Arrest Warrant, after leaving the UK before […]
0 comments
HOW WE CAN SUPPORT YOU
Whether you are an NGO, community organisation or an individual, we can help you to raise awareness of Modern Slavery in your local area.
MENUHome
About
Modern Slavery
Films
Take Action
OUR MISSION Unchosen uses the power of film to fight Modern Slavery — including human trafficking, forced criminality, child exploitation, sexual exploitation, domestic servitude and forced labour within supply chains.
DONATECONTACT Unchosen. Easton Business Centre,Felix Road, Bristol. BS5 0HETel
0117 941 5331
SPREAD THE WORD
EMAIL USMENUHome
About
Modern Slavery
Films
Take Action
OUR MISSION Unchosen uses the power of film to fight Modern Slavery — including human trafficking, forced criminality, child exploitation, sexual exploitation, domestic servitude and forced labour within supply chains.
DONATE
© 2017 Unchosen. MailBox 526, 179 Whiteladies Rd, Bristol. BS8 2AGRegistered Charity No: 1139721 Company Limited by Guarantee No: 07014345
Privacy policy, terms & conditions.
Scroll to top
