United Kingdom Without Incineration Network
Search
Join
Donate
Contact
United Kingdom Without Incineration Network
Home
News
The Network
Resources
Why Oppose Incineration
Volunteer
Home
Why does UKWIN oppose waste incineration?
The United Kingdom Without Incineration Network opposes the incineration of waste, including via gasification, pyrolysis and cement kilns. Incineration depresses recycling (see our evidence), destroys valuable resources, releases greenhouse gasses, and is a waste of money. Incineration has no place in the zero waste closed-loop circular economy we should be working towards.
CLICK HERE for details about our opposition to incineration
CLICK HERE to access campaign resources
Existing and potential mixed waste incinerators
UKWIN has more than 100 member groups and affiliates. If you are interested in finding existing, proposed and defeated mixed waste incinerators and the local campaigns opposing them then check out UKWIN’s interactive map and table.
CLICK HERE to visit the interactive map of existing and potential mixed waste incinerators
CLICK HERE to visit the table of existing and potential mixed waste incinerators
UKWIN on Facebook
Featured News
UKWIN welcomes EAC Treasury Report and calls for Residual Waste Tax
November 17, 2016 UKWIN welcomes EAC Treasury Report and calls for Residual Waste Tax Posted by admin at 8:51 am
No Responses
Uncategorized
UKWIN welcomes the Environmental Audit Committee’s call for the Treasury to set out its plans on the future of the Landfill Tax and how the Treasury intends to support further investment in recycling, and UKWIN is calling for HM Treasury to extend the […]
Full Story
UKWIN publishes briefing on gasification failures
November 2, 2016 UKWIN publishes briefing on gasification failures Posted by admin at 10:41 am
2 Responses
Uncategorized
The United Kingdom Without Incineration Network (UKWIN) has today published a briefing entitled “Gasification Failures in the UK: Bankruptcies and Abandonment”. This seven-page document draws upon published material to highlight how risky an investment these technologies have proved to be.
Full Story
Macquarie GIB takeover raises environmental concerns
October 12, 2016 Macquarie GIB takeover raises environmental concerns Posted by admin at 10:19 am
No Responses
Uncategorized
Joint press release by Biofuelwatch, UK Without Incineration Network and Coal Action Network 12th October 2016 – Environmental campaign groups warn that the imminent takeover of the UK’s so far publicly owned Green Investment Bank (GIB) by the Australian Macquarie […]
Full Story
Zero Waste Pamphlet now available from UKWIN
September 27, 2016 Zero Waste Pamphlet now available from UKWIN Posted by admin at 10:51 am
No Responses
Uncategorized
The United Kingdom Without Incineration Network (UKWIN) is proud to announce that copies of an illustrated Zero Waste pamphlet are now available for purchase.
Full Story
Donate Now UKWIN needs your support to remain active and independent.
More information ...
Social Media Follow @UKWIN_Network
New to Anti-Incineration? Don’t Miss: Why Oppose Incineration
Map of incinerators
Health issues
Join UKWIN
Already a member? Don’t Miss: Zero Waste Pamphlet
Briefings and Reports
Quote Bank
Take Action
Search
Website crafted by Ben of dowen.me.uk and Josh Dowen, Only Solutions LLP
© 2011 UK Without Incineration Network
We wish to thank famfamfam.com and OpenClipArt.org for many of the images we have used
Suffusion theme by Sayontan Sinha
