United For All Ages | United - not divided
Home
What we do
What we say
What we like
Who we are
Contact us
United - not divided
United for All Ages aims to build stronger communities and a stronger country by bringing younger and older people together and promoting a Britain for all ages. Rather than dividing generations, we need social and economic policies and projects that unite all ages.
Everyone should have the chance to work, somewhere decent to live and support for families with caring responsibilities. Underpinning action on homes, care and jobs should be fair taxation, shifting the balance from taxing income to taxing wealth.
Taking care of all generations in our ageing society highlights our interdependence. It focuses on what unites us – our mutual hopes and concerns; prevention being better than cure; technology working for all; support throughout life; and giving power to people.
We can create a Britain for all ages. To make progress, we need leadership and a new spirit in Britain that uses the assets and the contributions of citizens of all ages.
United for All Ages is a think tank and social enterprise developing new ‘all ages’ approaches to key social and economic issues – from housing and care to work and technology.
We offer a range of support and work with local and central government, health, housing associations, universities and colleges, companies, think tanks and voluntary organisations to do things differently in our ageing society and build communities for all ages.
Read more…
News from United
Families get tougher on quality of care – latest analysis of reviews left on Good Care Guide. See news release
NEW REPORT A Country for All Ages: ending age apartheid in Brexit Britain is United for All Ages’ latest report on how different generations can be brought together – see report and news release
Creating age-friendly cities – a new Parliamentary briefing for national and local politicians, planners, housing and transport providers
Tackling the care crisis – see United for All Ages’ submission to the House of Commons Communities and Local Government Select Committee inquiry into care funding.
Intergenerational fairness – see United for All Ages’ submission to the House of Commons Work and Pensions Select Committee inquiry into intergenerational fairness.
Fairness for all ages United for All Ages’ report Fairness for all ages – twenty radical ways to promote intergenerational equity features contributions from twenty national organisations on tackling inequality between generations
Downsizing home – United for All Ages’ latest website, www.downsizingdirect.com, encourages and supports older people and their families to downsize home. Providing free advice and practical support, the site aims to help older people to move to ‘the right place at the right time’ – a win-win for all generations
A Britain for All Ages – this report calls for a new contract between the generations, with ten ways to build a Britain where people of all ages can prosper. Read the report here
See also this policy paper, A Future for All Ages
Commission on the Voluntary Sector and Ageing – looking at the implications for all voluntary organisations of our ageing society. United’s Stephen Burke was one of the Commissioners. See the Commission’s website for its reports and get future-proofing!
Social Integration Commission – looking at how we mix across age, income and race. Three reports have been published by The Challenge together with the British Integration Survey 2016.
Good Care Guide hosts millions of visits – the only website where families using childcare and eldercare can rate and review their care providers. See Channel 4 News about reviews on Good Care Guide, which was developed by United for All Ages and My Family Care to help families choose care and improve the quality of care. See Good Care Guide here
Cross Generational Housing – a report by Michael Keith on designing homes where three or more generations of the same family could live together under one roof, published by United for All Ages here
Scrap the Cap: ten reasons why the cap on care costs should be replaced (not just postponed) by a fairer way of funding care for older people. A campaign by National Pensioners Convention, Unison and United for All Ages
Awards for All Ages – the most recent winners were announced here. Congratulations to Learning for the Fourth Age, The Peace Hospice and Magic Me. They show how action by and for all ages can tackle some of the big social issues facing Britain. See film of the presentation and the winners talking about their projects here.
Share:
Home  ·  What we like  ·  What we do  ·  What we say  ·  Who we are  ·  Contact us  ·  Sitemap
Limited company No.7211935.   Thrums, The Hill, Happisburgh, Norfolk, NR12 0PW.   Tel: 01692 650816.   Email: info@unitedforallages.com
© 2010 - 2017 United for all ages.   All Rights Reserved.   Design and web development: CODESIGN
