Well-being and Choice in Services for Older People
Well-being and Choice in Services for Older People
WELL-BEING AND CHOICE
Community care for older people which respects choice and quality of life
Well-being and Choice in Services for Older People
WELL-BEING AND CHOICE
IN SERVICES
FOR OLDER PEOPLE
A
website for social care and health care which promotes service users' own priorities and
their well-being and quality of life
England's 2005
social care Green Paper, Independence, Well-being and Choice, offered
support for everyone who wants to see
community care for older people become:
-
more responsive to the priorities of each individual service user,
-
ready to address older people's well-being and quality of life,
-
more flexible and capable of meeting a wide variety of service users' needs.
This website
offers a base for publications, discussion and weblinks which
advance such aims and seek to make the personal care budgets, announced by
Putting People First in December 2007, a route to flexible, person-centred care for older people.
PUBLICATIONS
& LINKS
'Caring for the whole person: home care for
older people which promotes well-being and choice'
Complete
findings from the in-depth, final stage of the research project on
flexible, person-centred home care for older people, which was funded by the
Department of Health and conducted at the Social Policy Research Unit,
University of York, during 2001-2005.  This research gives practical
guidance for making home care more person-centred and supportive of older
people's well-being and for preparing for
transition to personal care budgets, the individual budgets announced by
Putting People First in December 2007. Click on the title for a link towards full
text of this key publication on person-centred care - and links to other publications from this three-part research project.
Reducing depression among
older people receiving care
A project in North Yorkshire which
demonstrated, through a controlled research trial, how a holistic,
person-centred approach by care staff can reduce depression and improve
well-being among older people
receiving care services.
While the test of this approach concerned
improving the well-being of depressed older people in care homes, the same methods
can be applied in other types of care service for older people.
Click on the title for a link to summaries of the research findings and in-depth
information on the project's intervention methods.
Choices for end of life care: The Standards We Expect
A 2008 research
project report on how to give older people greater say over circumstances around the
end of their lives.
The Joseph
Rowntree Foundation’s illustrations of low-level support schemes for older
people.
The JRF Older People’s Steering Group (November 2005) has listed a set of
schemes which illustrate how older people can be supported
in many different areas of life. The examples are intended to inspire local
service development.
Research project 'Management and effectiveness of the home care service', Social
Work Research and Development Unit, University of York.
Evidence for promoting a holistic, care co-ordinating role by home care staff
for older people.
UK
Inquiry into Mental Health and Well-Being in Later Life
A UK-wide project
which aims to raise awareness of mental health and well-being in later life,
empower older people, build an evidence base, and influence policy and planning.
Individual Budgets
Drawing from
services for people with learning disabilities, 'In Control' developed an
approach which offers key foundations for the individualised care budgets now
made national policy by Putting People First in December 2007.  An
article explains the foundations of this approach.
The Standards We Expect
Some
publications from a research and development project aimed
at encouraging and guiding the development of
person centred support across the whole age range in adult
social care. This UK-wide project is supported by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation.
Outcomes-oriented
approaches, which can increase the flexibility of social care services
The 2005 social care Green Paper, 'Independence,
Well-being and Choice'.
OTHER LINKS
Organisations relevant to
social care for older people
About this
website
Contact this
website
E-mail:
wellbeingwebsite@btinternet.com
