WIN Home
The Wiltshire Involvement Network was supported by:
Wiltshire and Swindon Users' Network
The Independent Living Centre
St Georges Road
Semington
Wiltshire BA14 6JQ
The Wiltshire Involvement Network (WIN)
for Health and Social Care
Telephone - 01380 871800
Fax - 01380 871507
Contact us by email - info.wsun@btconnect.com
To view WIN's data protection statement click here.  This website contains links to other sites. WIN is not responsible for the data protection and privacy practices within any of these other sites. We encourage you to read the data protection and privacy statements on other sites you visit which collect personally identifiable information.
Follow @WIN005
The Wiltshire Involvement Network WIN no longer exists.  It was replaced by Healthwatch Wiltshire on the 1st April 2013.
The Wiltshire Involvement Network (WIN) was a network of people, organisations and community groups working together to improve health and social care services for the people of Wiltshire.
Christine Graves appointed Chief Executive Healthwatch Wiltshire
The WIN Health and Social Care Public Meeting on Saturday 2nd February at the Corn Exchange Devizes was told the newly appointed chairman of Healthwatch Wiltshire is Christine Graves, who retired from Wiltshire Council last September after 40 years.  She was  a manager in social care and health services.  Mrs Graves who llives in Wiltshire told the audience "Some of you will be thinking that I have got mixed commitment - I havent.  I feel very privileged to be part of Healthwatch Wiltshire".  The meeting attended by 110 people was also told that Healthwatch Wiltshire's budget would come from Wiltshire Council in the form a grant.  The Council will also set targets for Healthwatch Wiltshire.  For more information on Healthwatch Wiltshire please click here  for the presentation by Julie Martin Wiltshire Council.
WIN's Legacy Document - 'Our Legacy - Moving Forward into Healthwatch Wiltshire' can be downloaded here  A DVD has also been produced to form WIN's Legacy, you can view it here
WIN's final newsletter can be downloaded here
HomeDocuments HealthWatch
