Home - WRC - Women's Resource Centre
Home
About
Staff and Board
Get involved
Funders
Membership
Our work
CEDAW
CEDAW Shadow Report
Equality Act 2010
Impact of austerity
Cuts and the women’s sector research
Localism agenda
London for All
No recourse to public funds
Police and Crime Commissioners
Social Media, Campaigning and Influencing
Violence Against Women and Girls
Women’s health
Our Current Projects
A Fair Deal For Women
Ascent
Women’s Commissioning Support Unit
Women’s Health and Equality Consortium
Tools for rights – Women making a change
Women Speak Out !
Resources
Find a women’s organisation
Fundraising Resource Library at WRC
HR resources
Intersecting discrimination
BME resources
Disability resources
LGBT resources
Legal resources
Refugees & immigration
Social Return on Investment
Sustainable funding
Violence Against Women
Women’s Inequality
Women-only services
Women’s organisations: the ‘net beneath the net’
Consultancy
Digital Media – Web Design
Women’s Leadership
Social Enterprise
Gender Analysis
Campaigning and lobbying
Research and Policy briefings
Strategic Partnership and Network development
Monitoring and Evaluation
WRC Trainings and Events
Calendar
Training Catalogue
Training Policies
One-to-one support
News
Jobs
Join our team!
Jobs in the sector
Events
Contact
Log In
Donate
Women's Resource Centre...is the leading national umbrella organisation for women's charities, with a network of over 500 organisations Find out more → WRC Nominated ...we are proud to announce that we have been shortlisted for the Charity Awards 2016! Read more here
→ An award winning year...our CEO, Vivienne Hayes received the 2013 National Diversity Award for Gender Role Model and WRC received a Third Sector Award for Most Admired Charity Find out more → Our CEO has been awarded with an MBE!!! Read more about this exciting news here! → WRC is leading A Fair Deal for Women campaign...11 leading women's organisations are campaigning for a fair deal for women. Read their research and follow them on social media! Check out their website! Find out more → Women making a change:Tools for equality and rights...WRC has launched an online toolkit for women working in the women’s sector Find out more →
The Women's Resource Centre is the leading national umbrella body for women's charities, with over 500 members. We provide training so that women's charities can be more effective and sustainable and so that they can continue to deliver life-saving services to some of the most marginalised and oppressed women in our society. We also lobby the government on behalf of our members, seeking to join the dots of women's inequality to bring about substantive and transformative social change.
Our CEO, Vivienne Hayes awarded a MBE
MORE DETAILS
Launch of A Fair Deal for Women campaign!
MORE DETAILS
What’s Gender Got to Do With It? Women and the Economy
MORE DETAILS
Upcoming WRC training
VIEW ALL →
February
TUE 14
Training: Writing Successful Funding Proposals
Who is it for? Organisations that want to learn about how to improve their grant applications Module 1 [10:00-12:30] What’s it about? Module 1 will enable you to understand funders’ criteria, the key features of a good funding proposal and the evidence funders require to demonstrate effectiveness. What will I take away? How to define more »
Register
OR
MORE INFO
February
FRI 17
Training: Train the Trainer
Who is it for? Individuals who are or will be involved in the design and delivery of training in their organisations What’s it about? This one day course guides participants through the key skills needed to design and deliver effective training and handle common difficult situations that may arise What will I take away? An more »
Register
OR
MORE INFO
February
THUR 16
Training: Gender Equality and Gender Analysis (Cambridge)
Gender analysis: examines the differences in women’s and men’s lives, including those that lead to social and economic inequity for women, and applies this understanding to policy development and service delivery   What’s it about? This workshop is designed to support you to use a gender analytical approach in developing project proposals with consortia partners. more »
Register
OR
MORE INFO
Become a member We offer membership to women's charities and groups, as well as to individuals who want to get involved. Find out more about our membership packages by going to the membership page .
LATEST EVENTS
VIEW ALL →
Woman’s Trust Fabulous Fundraising Pub Quiz
By admin
On February 1, 2017
Posted In Events
Event title: Woman’s Trust Fabulous Fundraising Pub Quiz Date & time: 23 February 2017 7.30pm (doors open 6.30pm) Organiser: Woman’s Trust Website:        http://www.womanstrust.org.uk/events-2/ Description: Woman’s Trust provides free, specialist, client-led therapeutic services for women in London. Join us for our annual Woman’s Trust Fabulous Fundraising Pub Quiz, and help us raise vital funds so that more »
CONTINUE READING →
LATEST NEWS
VIEW ALL →
Million Women Rise March
By admin
On February 17, 2017
Posted In News
Women are encouraged to wear red, which symbolizes the colour of Woman and her blood, the blood of our sisters who have been murdered and raped, our blood which contains life, courage, respect, dignity and protection.   Dear Wonderful Women, We will be taking to the streets once again, and this year is our more »
CONTINUE READING →
LATEST JOBS
VIEW ALL →
Volunteer Women’s Building (WRC)
By admin
On February 16, 2017
Posted In Jobs, WRC jobs
Job Title: Volunteer – Women’s building Closing date: asap Organisation: Women’s Resource Centre Website: www.wrc.org.uk How to apply: send your CV to admin@wrc.org.uk. Description: WRC will be recruiting for a volunteer for one day a week (on Fridays) to support the development of the coalition, survey our membership, build the network of stakeholders and support more »
CONTINUE READING →
Contact us Women's Resource Centre
United House
North Road
London
N7 9DP
t. 0207 697 3450
f. 0207 697 3479
e. admin@wrc.org.uk
For press enquiries, please contact Vivienne Hayes: 0207 6973 451
Blog topicsabortion rights
education
Equality Impact Assessments
Feminism
International Day of the Girl
International Women's Day 2014
IWD 2014
Maria Miller
Maternity Action
Maternity Cutbacks Calculator
Netmums
Patriarchy
rape
reproductive rights
sexism in the police
Valuing Maternity
VAWG
Women's Hour Power List
WRC-IWD
Subscribe to our monthly e-news Simply click here to sign up to our dandy newsletter!
Donate
COPYRIGHT ©WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTRE 2014. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. REG CHARITY 1070606 LTD COMPANY 02462336.
