goodenoughcaring.com
goodenoughcaring.com
Menu
Skip to content
HomeWritings
The Journal
Comments
Counselling
Therapeutic Care & Social Pedagogy
Links
Featured post
Home
goodenoughcaring.com is an arena for the discussion of  issues of interest to parents, foster parents, residential child care workers, counsellors, youth support workers, social workers, teachers, mentors, social pedagogues,  educateurs  and to young people who are, and adults who have been, in care. If you are interested in, or involved in the care,upbringing and education of  children and young people or in the nurturing of children and young people who are unable to live with their own families  goodenoughcaring.com  is a site for you. The website welcomes  thoughtful views – personal, practical or theoretical –  about the care of children and young people.  If you want to comment about  child care or about goodenoughcaring.com  then  e mail:  goodenoughcaring@icloud.com
The goodenoughcaring.com site is archived at the British Library.
The goodenoughcaring journal is an online publication which invites anyone wishing to publish papers and articles about  parenting, nurture, child care work and related fields or those wishing to write about their child care experiences to submit as e mail attachments  papers or articles for publication to the editors at goodenoughcaring@icloud.com.
The members of the editorial group are Cynthia Cross, Evelyn Daniel, Siobain Degregorio, Jeremy Millar, Jane Kenny, Ariola Vishnja, Mark Smith, John Stein and Charles Sharpe. The current issue was published online on 18th, June, 2014 and  the next issue will be published on December 15th,  2014. The Journal index can be found at http://www.goodenoughcaring.com/the-journal/
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on April 15, 2014 by Charles Sharpe.
A thoughtful comment on Mark Smith’s “Dad’s the Word’
The significance of the role of fathers in lives of their children is now given more scrutiny and consideration than perhaps it ever has and Andrew Marchant’s thoughtful comment about Mark Smith’s 2011 article “Dad’s the Word” at
http://www.goodenoughcaring.com/the-journal/dads-the-word/  offers further cause for reflection.
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on February 15, 2017 by Charles Sharpe.
In brief, more of Winnicott on Adolescence
“Is it not a prime characteristic of adolescents that they do not accept false solutions? They have a fierce morality which accepts only that which feels real, and this is a morality that also characterizes infancy. It is a morality that goes much deeper than wickedness, and has as its motto, ‘to thine own self be true’. The adolescent is engaged in trying to find the self to be true to.       This is linked with the fact that, as I have said, the cure for adolescence is the passage of time, a fact which has very little meaning for the adolescent.”
Excerpt From: D. W. Winnicott, Clare Winnicott, Ray Shepherd & Madeleine Davis (1984) Deprivation and Delinquency.  London, Tavistock Publications
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on February 3, 2017 by Charles Sharpe.
The Next Limbus Talk: Learning Disabilities Psychotherapy
Farhad Dalal has informed us of the next Limbus talk which will take place at Studio 3, The Space, Dartington Hall on February 25, 2017. The talk Viewing Learning Disabilities Psychotherapy through an Attachment Lens: Theoretical Perspectives & Practical Strategies will be given by Kelly Camilleri & Kathy McKay.
It begins at 10.30 and admission is £20. You can pay at the door or online through the website at
limbus.org.uk
If you intend to pay at the door you are asked to arrive well before time to avoid hold ups.
Abstract : This talk aims to explore themes around working therapeutically with people who live with labels of intellectual disability, autism and acquired brain injury. What are the psychological sequelae of being born with or acquiring a disability in terms of attachment and early relations? How might therapy need to be adapted to meet individual cognitive or sensory needs? What is the role of trauma in psychological distress and how might this manifest differently in people with these labels? How is power perceived and played out in our systems of care? The talk aims to provide a psychological understanding from a variety of perspectives, with special consideration for the use of Dyadic Developmental Psychotherapy (DDP) for this group and their systems. Within the context of a short term, goal orientated therapy world how can we provide meaningful support which is individually tailored?
Dr Kelly Camilleri is an independent Consultant Clinical Psychologist. She qualified 19 years ago from Birmingham University and has since worked with children and adults with learning difficulty, autism, and acquired disability. Kelly has worked in a variety of sectors including the NHS, charity and the private sector. She is particularly interested in the role of attachment and trauma for the individual and their systems. Kelly is a keen proponent on the use of DDP for this group which she feels enables a dual approach focusing both on peoples internal and external worlds. She is on the Division of Clinical Psychology Southwest Committee and is the coordinator for local Psychology Against Austerity Group.
Dr Kathy McKay is a Clinical Psychologist who has worked in Learning Disability Services in the NHS since qualifying in 1995. She has also worked in Independent Practice since 2007. Settings have included community Learning Disability teams, In-patient Units and a Secure Forensic Unit. She has also worked in a CAMHS Service in a secure childrens home, and currently provides regular input into a Local Authority Family Centre to support them in taking into account a parents learning needs in their assessment and intervention processes. Kathy has provided training on attachment and trauma in learning disabilities, and further on creating attachment friendly environments in a number of the aforementioned settings. Like Kelly, Kathy has completed training in DDP, which was a driver for this area of work.
Other talks on  2017 Limbus programme
May 20, Sally Weintrobe  Climate Change and the New Imagination
Sep 16, Paul Zeal               Breath, Gender and Nature’s Dreaming
Nov 11, Sue Mizen            Metaphor Making in the Relational Brain
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on January 27, 2017 by Charles Sharpe.
Something to consider : Adam Phillips on teaching
‘The only reason to go to school, that I can see, is to make friends whom you love and like. If you’re lucky, you find something that really interests you. You’ve got to learn to read and write and basic numeracy and so on, but, other than that, it’s absolutely pointless to teach children things that they’re not interested in. The education system needs to factor that in. I remember one of my daughter’s teachers saying to me, “She only works at the subjects she’s interested in.” I was thinking, Great! That would be the point. You go to school, and teachers offer you the things they think are good, but you choose them. It’s always true that the student chooses the teacher.’
This is an extract from  Sameer Padania’s 2010 interview with the psychoanalyst and essayist Adam Phillips for Bomb Magazine. The full text of the interview can be found at   http://bombmagazine.org/article/3623/adam-phillips
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on January 11, 2017 by Charles Sharpe.
Issue 20 of the goodenoughcaring Journal is now online
The final scheduled issue of the goodenoughcaring Journal is now online. Articles submitted or commissioned in the future will continue to be published but regular readers will we relieved to know that after the next one they will know longer have to read the promotional email we send out to you every six months.
This issue is an interesting and informative one, a challenging one, a controversial one and perhaps a disturbing one. We would welcome and encourage your comments on any of the articles.
In this issue :-
Dr. Elaine Arnold tells of the significance education held for immigrants to the United Kingdom from the Caribbean while Margaret Hughes recollects the City of Birmingham’s efforts to meet the social and educational needs of immigrants from the Indian sub-continent and elsewhere in the 1950s,60s,70s and 80s.
Noel Howard discusses religion, spirituality and the importance of place in social care. Michael J Marlowe considers how relationships may be made with children who are difficult to reach and Maurice Fenton proposes and develops a concept of ‘relationship based self-care.’
Alex Russon reflects on relocating with his young family from the midlands of England to the north-east of Scotland and Justin Frost reviews three feature films which deal with divorce, parenting and family break up.
Cynthia Cross examines the issues which can lead to a cycle of disruption in residential child care. Maurice Fenton proposes and develops the concept of ‘relationship based self-care.’ In a further article he contemplates the notion of ‘vicarious confidence’ in the care of children and young people and Simon Blades reviews Maurice’s latest book ‘The Stolen Child’.
Colin Maginn proposes that we can do better than good enough caring. John Stein recalls how times have changed in child and youth care. In a second article Elaine Arnold argues that aspects of attachment theory remain significant throughout life.
Mark Smith has written a startling, challenging and important article on the prosecution of those accused of child sexual abuse.
In his editorial Charles Sharpe has attempts a brief explanation of what those who founded the Journal believed goodenoughcaring to be and with it he provides a brief history of the goodenoughcaring Journal.
We hope you find something to interest you in this issue. We’d like to thank all the people who have written for us and helped to built up this superb archive about children growing up and about the adults who care for them and educate them. Each piece of writing is interesting and thought provoking. The archive will remain open for everyone who is interested in the nurturing of children. News items will continue to appear on the home page and occasional articles will be published when they are submitted.
Finally we would like to thank the hundreds of thousands of people who visit and read the Journal. It is good to be part of this community.
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on December 15, 2016 by Charles Sharpe.
Not long now – the  20th goodenoughcaring Journal goes online tomorrow
Issue 20 is published online tomorrow
Elaine Arnold writes about the significance education had for immigrants to the United Kingdom from the Caribbean while Margaret Hughes recollects the City of Birmingham’s efforts to meet the social and educational needs of immigrants from the Indian sub-continent in the 1950s,60s,70s and 80s.
Noel Howard considers religion, spirituality and the importance of place in social care. Michael J Marlowe examines the making of relationships with children who are difficult to reach and Maurice Fenton proposes and develops the concept of ‘relationship based self-care.’
Alex Russon considers the implications of relocating a family to another region and Justin Frost reviews three feature films which deal with divorce and the break up of the family.
Cynthia Cross considers how to break the cycle of disruption which exists in residential child care.
In a further article Maurice Fenton contemplates ‘vicarious confidence’ in the care of children and young people and Simon Blades reviews Maurice’s latest book  ‘The Stolen Child’.
Colin Maginn proposes that we can do better than good enough caring and in response Charles Sharpe writes briefly about the history of the goodenoughcaring Journal and the idea of good-enough caring.
John Stein thinks about how times have changed in child and youth care. In another article Elaine Arnold argues that aspects of attachment theory remain significant throughout life. Mark Smith provides a challenging article on the prosecution of those accused of child sexual abuse
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on December 13, 2016 by Charles Sharpe.
10 days to go ’til Issue 20 : Two more ingredients added to the recipe
As they’d ask in Worksop, “Hey up, what’s going off here?” There’s a great deal of activity in the goodenoughcaring Journal bakery. In addition to those already announced in previous posts further ingredients have been added by Elaine Article and Cynthia Cross. More flavours will be blended in during the next few days.
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on December 5, 2016 by Charles Sharpe.
The goodenoughcaring bake off : more ingredients in the mixing bowl for issue 20
In addition to the articles already announced by Colin Maginn, Michael J Marlowe, Alex Russon, Justin Frost, Mark Smith, Simon Blades and John Stein we are delighted to say we have received further pieces by Margaret Hughes, Noel Howard and Maurice Fenton. Others are in the pipeline. More details will appear on this page in a few days time.
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on November 28, 2016 by Charles Sharpe.
The next Limbus lecture
Farhad Dalai has written to us with details of the next year’s first Limbus lecture on Saturday, February 25th, 2017.
The lecture Viewing Learning Disabilities Psychotherapy through an Attachment Lens:
Theoretical Perspectives & Practical Strategies will be given by Kelly Camilleri & Kathy McKay
The event will take place between 10.30am to 1pm  in Studio 3, The Space, Dartington Hall. The cost of entrance is £20.
If you are interested you can book a place online at limbus.org.uk or you can come and pay at the door.
Abstract :  Viewing Learning Disabilities Psychotherapy through an Attachment Lens:
Theoretical Perspectives & Practical Strategies
This talk aims to explore themes around working therapeutically with people who live with labels of intellectual disability, autism and acquired brain injury. What are the psychological sequelae of being born with or acquiring a disability in terms of attachment and early relations? How might therapy need to be adapted to meet individual cognitive or sensory needs? What is the role of trauma in psychological distress and how might this manifest differently in people with these labels? How is power perceived and played out in our systems of care? The talk aims to provide a psychological understanding from a variety of perspectives, with special consideration for the use of Dyadic Developmental Psychotherapy (DDP) for this group and their systems. Within the context of a short term, goal orientated therapy world how can we provide meaningful support which is individually tailored?
Dr Kelly Camilleri is an independent Consultant Clinical Psychologist. She qualified 19 years ago from Birmingham University and has since worked with children and adults with learning difficulty, autism, and acquired disability. Kelly has worked in a variety of sectors including the NHS, charity and the private sector. She is particularly interested in the role of attachment and trauma for the individual and their systems. Kelly is a keen proponent on the use of DDP for this group which she feels enables a dual approach focusing both on peoples internal and external worlds. She is on the Division of Clinical Psychology Southwest Committee and is the coordinator for local Psychology Against Austerity Group.
Dr Kathy McKay is a Clinical Psychologist who has worked in Learning Disability Services in the NHS since qualifying in 1995. She has also worked in Independent Practice since 2007. Settings have included community Learning Disability teams, In-patient Units and a Secure Forensic Unit. She has also worked in a CAMHS Service in a secure childrens home, and currently provides regular input into a Local Authority Family Centre to support them in taking into account a parents learning needs in their assessment and intervention processes. Kathy has provided training on attachment and trauma in learning disabilities, and further on creating attachment friendly environments in a number of the aforementioned settings. Like Kelly, Kathy has completed training in DDP, which was a driver for this area of work.
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on November 24, 2016 by Charles Sharpe.
Less than a month away – issue 20 of the goodenoughcaring Journal goes online on December 15th.
On December 15th, 2016, the new issue of the goodenoughcaring Journal will go online.  Articles by Colin Maginn, Michael J Marlowe, Alex Russon, Justin Frost, Mark Smith, Simon Blades and John Stein are already confirmed. A similar number are in the pipeline and will be confirmed with more details in the coming days.
This entry was posted in goodenoughcaring.com on November 21, 2016 by Charles Sharpe.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Recent Posts
A thoughtful comment on Mark Smith’s “Dad’s the Word’
In brief, more of Winnicott on Adolescence
The Next Limbus Talk: Learning Disabilities Psychotherapy
Something to consider : Adam Phillips on teaching
Issue 20 of the goodenoughcaring Journal is now online
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
September 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
Categories
goodenoughcaring.com
News
Opinion
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
To contact goodenoughcaring email goodenoughcaring@icloud.com
