Geo Strategies - Geo Strategies supplies mapping, GIS, Mosaic, financial segmentations and data for Romania, address cleansing, standardisation and de-duplication
Geo StrategiesGeo Strategies supplies mapping, GIS, Mosaic, financial segmentations and data for Romania, address cleansing, standardisation and de-duplicationAbout Us
Our History
Cambridge
Sibiu
Our Customers
Our Partners
Experian
Navteq
Pitney Bowes
Resources
Brochures & Factsheets
Industry Applications
Best Practice
Press
Videos
Support & Training
Testimonials
FAQs
Contacts
Consumer Data & Insights
Big Data & Insights
Single Customer View
Alteryx
Geodemographics
Segmentations
Mosaic Romania
Mosaic Global
Lifestyle Data
Wealth Indicators
Brand Profiling
Area Analysis & Insight
Marketing Databases
Micromarketer
Marketing Services
Geomarketing
Location Insight
Network Planning
Cross Channel Marketing
ECCMP Marketing Platform
Data Quality Management
Address Cleansing
Geocoding
De-duplication
Data Integration & BI
Spectrum
Mapping & GIS
World Data
Data for Romania
Value-added Mapping
Standard Mapping
MapInfo
GIS Consultancy
Geo Strategies in RomaniaGeo Strategies works with organisations across industries and government to help inform decisions based on location and demographics.
We have created extensive information products for Central & Eastern Europe which enable the user to analyse, profile and map the social and economic characteristics of areas – typically down to postcode level.
Our market planning … [Read More...]
GeomarketingEvery business in the marketplace today needs to understand, define, analyse and model data in order to analyse and segment their market, to prospect, analyse and target customers, to analyse and define sales territories or to select a … [Read More...]
Mosaic RomaniaGeo Strategies, in partnership with Experian have announced the development of their latest country-specific consumer classification with the launch of Mosaic Romania for consumer segmentation.
Mosaic Romania is a completely new … [Read More...]
Cross-channel MarketingIn today’s digital world, it is vital to communicate with customers across all their favourite channels including the full range of digital media including blogs and tweets.
The Experian Cross Channel Marketing Platform (ECCMP) delivers … [Read More...]
Big Data AnalyticsGeo Strategies specialises in the organisation and structuring of Big Data to help companies understand their customers.
Understanding your customer
There is a huge difference between Big Data and … [Read More...]
Location InsightModern business activities increasingly depend on reliable and accurate address data. This is particularly true for CRM and data warehousing applications where unclear structures and different formats reduce the … [Read More...]
Data QualityData quality management allows for up-to-date and clean information that is the first step towards a single customer view. This is particularly required in Romania.
Data quality: the first step to an effective … [Read more...]
Copyright © 2017
· Geo Strategies Ltd ·
