Information Centre about Asylum and Refugees : Homepage : Welcome to ICAR
Skip to Content
This site is a static archive of the ICAR site for information (see below for details). Some dynamic areas of the site such as the search facility may not work as expected.
ICAR
Making Sense of Asylum
Main Navigation
About UsInformationResearchMediaAsylum Update
Search
Breadcrumbs
ICAR HomeWelcome to ICAR
Welcome to ICAR
The Information Centre about Asylum and Refugees (ICAR) is an independent information and research organisation based at the Runnymede Trust. To find out more see About ICAR and read the latest ICAR newsletter   PLEASE NOTE:The ICAR website is no longer being updated and this static archived version is hosted as part of the Living Refugee Archive at the University of East London, where the physical ICAR Archive is also located.
For all enquiries, please contact the Archivist, Paul Dudman, on p.v.dudman@uel.ac.uk. ICAR has now existed for 10 years and in that time a great deal has changed in the asylum and refugee debates. There is a wide range of information now available on the subject, and a number of resources have recently formed looking at wider immigration issues. In this time of austerity and cuts to charitable funding it has simply not been possible to raise enough money to keep the ICAR web site updated. Runnymede is optimistic about the future of research into asylum and refugee policies and will continue to pursue ICAR's mission of producing impartial information and research on these issues. However, in line with other organisations we have to think hard about how we do this. In the meantime, the ICAR website will remain online for the coming months and Runnymede will work hard to archive material from it. Users who want to find information on the asylum and refugee fields can find high quality information on the following web sites:General Information and Statistics:Migration Observatory Migrants Rights NetworkRefugee Council Advice and Assistance including legal help:REAPPraxisAsylum AidILPA
Latest Additions
New ICAR Briefing written by Claudia Santoro: Asylum Seekers, Refugees and Media (Feb 2012)
Media (mis)representation is an article in the Runnymede Spring Bulletin where Gabriela Quevedo examines negative press stereotypes of refugees and asylum seekers. Also in the Bulletin: Refugees hit by tuition fee rise by J  Lee, Refugee Council.ICAR Focus On March 2011: Ex Foreign National Offenders  Julie Gibbs has written 'Asylum Seekers and Refugees Face Double Hit' for the Runnymede Bulletin Financial Inclusion amongst New Migrants in Northern Ireland is a new research report by ICAR in collaboration with Citizens Advice Belfast, and written by Julie Gibbs. Read more Mapping refugee and migrant populations in the UK is a new ICAR Resource Guide written by Gabriela Quevedo, based on the Evelyn Oldfield Unit ‘Conducting Community Research' course.ICAR's refugee populations series features new introductory guides to Zimbabweans and Afghans in the UK, written by our interns. for older items see our news archive
ICAR Information Products
Analysis of asylum statistics
Weekly Asylum Update
ICAR 'Focus On'
Briefings
Mapping the UK
Asylum Update
ICAR Asylum Update 16th August 201116 August 2011Asylum Update 5th July 20115 July 2011
Ask ICAR
ICAR is based at the Runnymede Trust.
More
RAL
Search our database of asylum and refugee research in London More
Research Directory
Search ICAR's Research Directory More
Subscribe
Register with us to receive ICAR's newsletter. More
Explore By Theme
Asylum Law and PolicyServices and SupportCommunity and IntegrationArts and MediaSpecific NeedsRefugee PopulationsStatisticsGlobal ContextResearch Methods
Explore By Location
Select a Region
South East
Greater London
South West
East Anglia
East Midlands
West Midlands
Wales
Yorkshire and Humberside
North East
North West
Scotland
Northern Ireland
Enlarge Map
ICAR Information
© Copyright ICAR 2008
Sitemap
Accessibility
Contact Us
Designed by Tincan
Powered by the Webbler
