The Intergenerational Foundation
Skip to content
Search for:
IF
Projects
Education
Employment
Environment
Government Debt
Health
Housing
Population
Taxation
Research
Research Papers
Reading List
Public Consultation Responses
Budget Submissions
Briefing Notes
Intergenerational Justice Review
IGJR 2012
IGJR 2015
IGJR 2016 (1)
IGJR 2016 (2)
IGJR 2017 (1)
IGJR 2017 (2)
IGJR 2018 (1)
Blog
Campaigns
Join “Parents Against Student Debt”
Prizes
Academic Prizes
Film Competition
Essay Competition
Youth Manifesto 2015
Press
Press Information
Press Cuttings
About
About IF
Funding
Advisory Board
Contact us
Schools Fact Sheets
Support IF
Donate
Leave a Legacy
Take Action
IF Consulting
Link to us
The Intergenerational Foundation
"A politician thinks about the next elections — the statesman thinks about the next generations." James Freeman Clarke (1810–88), American theologian and author
The Intergenerational Foundation (IF) researches fairness between generations. IF believes that, while increasing longevity is welcome, government policy must be fair to all generations – old, young or those to come.
IF launches Parents Against Student Debt
Following calls from parents incensed at the level of debt their kids are having to take on, we are launching a campaign to encourage parents to demand a fairer deal for students. That’s why we will be marching with students on 19 November in London. If you want to join us, email info@if.org.uk for further information. Read more
Generations Apart with Legal & General
Join the blog discussion
NHS and social care integration not delivering expected benefits, says NAOGovernment announces plans to sell off pre-2012 student loansWill the white paper on housing really help young renters?Apprenticeship levy could do more harm than good, warns IFSAncient Sparta – a perfect gerontocracy?
The European Intergenerational Fairness Index 2016
Has Europe let down its young? That is the question the Intergenerational Foundation (IF) strives to answer with the IF European Fairness Index 2016 and our interactive online tool.
News
Packhorse Generation: The long debt tail of student loans
The UK 2016 Intergenerational Fairness Index published
DB Pensions: Choking Hazard report published
IF’s report on nuclear: Toxic Time Capsule
Unlocking Britain’s Hidden Homes: IF’s report on downsizing-in-situ
Parliamentary Work and Pensions Committee launches enquiry into intergenerational fairness
IF in the News – latest coverage
New Competition: €10,000 up for grabs in the IF/FRFG 2016/17  academic essay competition
IF Index – 2016
The latest Intergenerational Fairness Index reveals that pensions and government debt are key drivers for stagnation of young people’s prospects.
School Visits and Fact Sheets
If you want to give young people an introduction to the key issues surrounding intergenerational fairness why not download our free fact sheets or invite IF to speak at your school or college. Recommended age 16+.
For further information email liz@if.org.uk.
Get involved!
Mailing list
Sign up for our quarterly newsletter.
Email:
Tweets by @inter_gen
Speakers
IF can supply speakers and give presentations on our work.
Links
IF is pleased to be working with:
© 2017. The Intergenerational Foundation, registered charity no. 1142230.
