Migration Museum | The story of movement into and out of the UK
Find us on other platforms
Soundcloud
Facebook
twitter
Flickr
Vimeo
Email
Virgin
Normal
Medium
Large
Search
Search for:
HomeExhibitions
What’s on
Learn more
Audio
Video
Publications
Education
Resource bank
Videos
Advice for teachers
Blog
News
About us
About our project
Our team
Trustees
Committees
Distinguished friends
Work with us
Partners
Connect
Menu
Call me by my name: stories from Calais and beyond© Paul Evans, The Red Carpet
Cazenove Road, London© Christian Sinibaldi
Sasha, Maurice and Frank with their Keepsakes. See Exhibitions below for Keepsakes gallery and stories© Camilla Greenwell
Visitor stories from Adopting Britain at Southbank Centre© Migration Museum Project, Photo by Poppy Williams
Union Jack socks© Kajal Nisha Patel
The Migration Museum Project plans to create the UK’s first dedicated Migration Museum and to tell the story of movement into and out of the UK in a fresh and engaging way.
The museum will be an enquiry into who we are, where we came from and where we are going. Britons at home and abroad have a shared cultural history and an exciting future. We aim to represent the individual stories, the emotion and the history that have gone into shaping our national fabric; we aim to be the museum of all our stories.
Read more about our project
Find out more about us
Recent tweets
Follow us on twitter – @migrationuk
Migration Museum @migrationuk 17 FebGreat to see excerpt from @PSYCHE_delight's comedy about the Calais 'Jungle'
#Borderline at Refugee Week conferenc… https://t.co/j94kUn43Ro
Migration Museum @migrationuk 17 FebGreat to be @RefugeeWeek conference today & learning about arts projects like Free Balloons by Richard Dedomenici 🎈… https://t.co/TUaK8jmIqc
Migration Museum @migrationuk 17 Feb@PaulDudman @jajickulous @BeyondPastUK No problem at all! Happens all the time
Migration Museum @migrationuk 17 FebDavis Museum removes all artwork created by immigrants to highlight contribution of migration to arts https://t.co/JUXnTitrZR #1DayWithoutUs
Migration Museum @migrationuk 16 FebLeaving Europe: A new life in America | Online exhibition on European #migration on @Europeanaeu https://t.co/gCPy5zFPMg #allourstories
Migration Museum @migrationuk 15 FebGreat event by @RunnymedeTrust on how to teach #partition of India in a way that recognises complexity & promotes e… https://t.co/dQs6ocuhzU
Migration Museum @migrationuk 15 Feb@PaulDudman @jajickulous @BeyondPastUK Look fwd to the continuing convo P.S. we we are @MigrationUK, lovely @MigrationMuseum is in Australia
Migration Museum @migrationuk 15 FebTruly extraordinary white-hot misery of the #migrantcrisis using thermal imaging by Richard Mosse @BarbicanCentre https://t.co/PXcYMH4qzp
Join us
To hear about important updates and events at the museum register for our free newsletter
Email Address
First Name
Last Name
Examples of the emails we send out are listed here:
Distinguished friendsIain WatsonIain has been Director of Tyne & Wear Archives & Museums since March 2010 and a member of TWAM’s Senior Management Team since 2001, following a previous 18 years’ experience in the cultural and heritage sector. Iain is a Board member of the Museums Association and a member of the Executive Committee of the National…
Read more
Meet our distinguished friends
Support us
For more information about becoming a supporter email: supporter@migrationmuseum.org.uk Or to fundraise or donate visit our giving page:
What's on
Germans in Britain at the University of Reading© Migration Museum ProjectJanuary 16, 2017Explore the rich and fascinating history of German migrants to Britain at our pop-up exhibition at the University of Reading, complemented by a series of talks and tours.
Read more
Exhibitions
Call me by my name: stories from Calais and beyond© Paul Evans, The Red CarpetCall me by my name: stories from Calais and beyond is a multimedia exhibition, that was originally staged in June 2016. It explores the complexity and human stories behind the current migration crisis, with a particular focus on the Calais camp.
Read more
100 Images of Migration100 Images of Migration is our flagship exhibition which brings together diverse images contributed by professional and amateur photographers – images that say something about migration to or from the UK.
Read more
Keepsakes© Camilla GreenwellWorking with communities and individuals, we are exploring the nature and importance of personal keepsakes in telling migration stories.
Read more
Adopting Britain at Southbank Centre© Tim SmithWe are very proud to have been a part of the Adopting Britain exhibition, curated by Southbank Centre in partnership with Counterpoints Arts, during its run at Royal Festival Hall from April to September 2015.
Read more
Germans in BritainExplore the rich and fascinating history of German migrants to Britain in our pop-up exhibition, which has toured extensively throughout the UK.
Read more
RE·THINK MigrationWe collaborated with the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich to explore the theme of migration with visitors from June – November 2015.
Read more
Latest blog
At last, a larger slice of the cakeMartin Spafford, who sits on the Migration Museum Project’s education committee, writes here about developments to public examination at GCSE which, for the first time, enshrine migration education on the school curriculum. Emily Miller, the Migration Museum Project’s education manager, is working with Martin to promote migration education in schools. Migration and the new GCSE…
Read more
A Nepali in Victorian EnglandGurkhas occupy an interesting place in British folklore. Universally recognised as ferociously loyal, heroic and determined fighters in the British army, they were only recently given right to settle in this country, and then only after a high-profile media campaign. In this guest blog, Krishna P Adhikari recounts what is known of one of the first Nepali visitors…
Read more
The Wiener Library’s timely exhibition‘The sympathy and freedom and liberty of England’ With wonderful timing, the Wiener Library opened its new exhibition, ‘A Bitter Road’, on the reception of Jewish refugees in the 1930s and 1940s, on Thursday 27 October, the day that the Calais ‘Jungle’ was dismantled and its residents dispersed. The coincidence didn’t escape the speakers at…
Read more
Imprints: our first London Migration WalkWe went on a walk last Sunday, along with about 130 others. It started in the cold, grey and wet, at a time when many of us would still be, if not in bed, certainly doing nothing much more energetic than turning the pages of a Sunday paper and slurping coffee. It ended in glorious…
Read more
The poetry of migration© Nick EllwoodOne of the first events we held in the course of our three-week residency at Londonewcastle this summer (where more than 4,000 people visited our exhibition Call Me By My Name: Stories from Calais and Beyond) was the ‘Poetry of Migration’ on Tuesday 6 June. Michael Rosen (distinguished poet, writer, entertainer – and distinguished friend…
Read more
Exploring the migrant history of Victorian East LondonWhat was the attitude of the Victorians to immigration, particularly Jewish immigration? What was the mood of the country leading up to the passing of the Aliens Act in 1905? And what parallels are there between the experience of immigrants then and now, one hundred years later? The focus of this guest blog is Israel Zangwill and…
Read more
The Languages of MigrationEmily Miller, Education Officer at the Migration Museum Project How does the language we use to talk about migration and migrants affect our views on migration? This is the question that Michael Rosen dug into in the Migration Museum Project’s inaugural annual lecture at the London School of Economics and Political Science last week.  …
Read more
Education & resources
Our Migration StoryThis website draws on the research of over 60 historians based in universities and historical institutions and presents the often untold stories of the generations of migrants who came to and shaped the British Isles. England’s Immigrants 1330 – 1550These lessons introduce pupils to the results of the research project into medieval immigration using extensive government records from the time.They Came Because They Had ToA quiz, story and role play, designed to get students thinking about forced migration.
Latest news
The Migration Museums NetworkThe Migration Museum Project is excited to announce the launch of the Migration Museums Network.
Read more
Remembering Sir Ralph KohnWe were deeply saddened to receive news of the passing of Sir Ralph Kohn, on 14 November 2016. Sir Ralph Kohn was well known as an innovator in the pharmaceutical industry, an accomplished baritone, and a generous philanthropist. He set up the Kohn Foundation supporting medical, scientific, artistic, and humanitarian causes and organisations, and we…
Read more
Imprints: London Migration WalkOn Sunday 16th October 2016, over 120 intrepid walkers joined the Migration Museum Project for our inaugural Migration Walk –  an epic trek across London, from Cutty Sark in the east to Hyde Park in the west. The walk took approximately 9 hours, and covered 15 miles, and through the unpredictable weather, our expert guides illuminated hidden stories of migrants…
Read more
Moving Stories – exhibition competition with OCR© Kajal Nisha PatelWe are excited to be pursuing our partnership with the OCR exam board on a new exhibition competition.
Read more
MMP Director Sophie Henderson at TEDxClaphamMMP Director Sophie Henderson recently gave a talk at TEDxClapham on the important role that migration has always played in the national story.
Read more
‘Call me by my name’ exhibition in the news© Paul EvansOur exhibition, Call me by my name: stories from Calais and beyond, was featured in several news and online media pieces.
Read more
Learn more
Robert Tombs on English migration history© Migration Museum ProjectOn 18 November 2015, Robert Tombs delivered our second Annual Lecture in partnership with the London School of Economics and Political Sciences. Listen to the audio podcast.
Read more
100 Images of Migration Online Gallery© Tim SmithFirst shown at Hackney Museum, our exhibition is now viewable as an online gallery.
Read more
Connect
HomePrivacy & accesibility
© Migration Museum Project 2017Registered in England and Wales No. 8544993and a registered charity No. 1153774
Branding and website concept by Branding by Garden
Contribute and explore on Flickr
Learn more our soundcloud podcasts
Follow us on twitter
Like us on facebook
Website design and build by W&A;
For general enquiries email the office
Education related enquiries
Event related enquiries
Make a donation to the project
