Aberdeen announces the route of Olympic Torch relay
This website uses cookies. By continuing to browse this website you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You may delete and block all cookies from this site, but parts of the site will no longer work. For more information please see our privacy statement and our cookie information page.
Skip Navigation
A to Z
Site Map
Accessibility
Text Size: A A A
Home
Contact Us
Search
A-Z directory of all services >
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
How can we help you...
Pay it
Book it
Check it
Report it
Apply for it
Newsroom
Business and Trade
Council and Government
Council Tax and Benefits
Housing
Jobs and Careers
Leisure and Community Life
Libraries and Information Services
Parking, Transport and Streets
Planning and Building Standards
Schools, Education and Learning
Social Care and Health
Tourism and Visitor Attractions
Waste and Recycling
Council news  >  Press Releases  >  Aberdeen announces the route of Olympic Torch relay
Aberdeen announces the route of Olympic Torch relay
19/03/12
The streets the Olympic Flame will travel through in Aberdeen and the names of the inspirational Torchbearers who will run in the city have been announced by Aberdeen City Council today [Monday 19 March].
People will be able to welcome the Olympic Flame to their street and cheer on the Torchbearers carrying the Flame and share in the excitement the Olympic Torch Relay.
The route on day 24 [Monday 11 June] of the Olympic Torch Relay will see the Olympic Flame travel through Aberdeenshire and arrive at approximately 6.25pm in Peterculter. The Olympic Flame will then travel through Bieldside, Milltimber, Cults and Mannofield before heading along Great Western Road, Holburn Street and Union Street before it reaches the host city's evening celebrations at the Castlegate.
Aberdeen City Council, working with LOCOG and the three Presenting Partners of the Relay – Coca Cola, Bank of Scotland and Samsung – will host the evening spectacular to celebrate the Olympic Flame.
The exciting event at the Castlegate will be free and feature local entertainment and well-known must-see performers. Details of the show will be released over the next few months.
Day 25 of the Olympic Torch Relay will set off at 7.20am approximately from BP's headquarters in Dyce, making its way via Bucksburn and the Haudigan Roundabout to Hilton Drive, where the first Torchbearer of the day will carry the Olympic Flame.
The relay will then continue via Anderson Drive to Bridge of Dee and then make its way on to the A90 as it leaves Aberdeen and continues on its historic journey.
The streets along the London 2012 Olympic Torch Relay can be viewed in full at www.london2012.com/olympictorchrelay. The website gives street-by-street details and proposed start times for when the Olympic Flame will travel through Aberdeen, giving residents living in and around the city the chance to find out when it will be travelling along their nearest street.
The Torchbearers confirmed to carry the Flame in Aberdeen include those who were successful through the public nomination processes run by LOCOG and the Presenting Partners. LOCOG has endeavoured to slot all community Torchbearers within an hour of their address so family and friends can cheer them on. Each Torchbearer will wear a white and gold uniform which has been designed by Adidas.
Lord Provost of Aberdeen Peter Stephen said: "This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for residents and visitors to Aberdeen to see the Olympic Flame and witness the spectacle of the Olympic Torch Relay.
"Today we are looking forward to welcoming the Torchbearers as they bring the Olympic Flame through the various communities of Aberdeen."
Aberdeen City Council's City Promotions Manager Dawn Schultz added: Today's announcement really brings the route to life and we are sure it will encourage people to get involved and start to plan where they want to be to support and see the Olympic Torch."
Aberdeen resident Morgan Tunney (20) has been chosen to carry the Olympic Flame because of her enthusiasm for volunteering. Since 2009 she has completed over 1,000 hours of charity work.
During her 'gap' year in 2009 Morgan was a volunteer for Vitalise; a national charity that offers respite care and other support to people with physical disabilities and carers.
In 2010 Morgan moved to Aberdeen to study at Robert Gordon University. She is the Scottish regional representative for Impact Student Volunteering Network and is the Vice-President (Societies) at the RGU students' union working tirelessly to improve the student experience. She is also involved in the university's RAG [Raising and Giving] charity and has helped to organise an underwear fashion show and the 'nippy dip' for RAG week.
Morgan has also been an ambassador for the national volunteer initiative v20 where she helped to organise youth volunteering and assisted in the selection process for the national young volunteer awards.
Morgan, who will carry the Olympic Torch through Cults, said: "I love volunteering and it has enriched my life so much. I am really grateful that my sister, Alexandria, nominated me and now it feels really surreal to know that I will be taking part in the Olympic Torch Relay. I am excited and nervous at the same time."
Sebastian Coe, Chair of LOCOG added: "The Olympic Flame symbolises the Olympic spirit and its journey around the UK will bring the excitement of the Games to our streets. Now the people know the route the Olympic Flame will be carried along and the Torchbearers for their community, they can start planning how they might celebrate and make it Aberdeen's moment to shine."
An average of 115 Torchbearers a day will carry the Olympic Flame during its 8,000 mile journey around the UK before it arrives at the Olympic Stadium on 27 July for the lighting of the cauldron at the Opening Ceremony, signifying the official start of the London 2012 Olympic Games.
LOCOG has worked closely with representatives from a number of sectors in each nation and region of the UK to devise the route and is taking the Olympic Flame to within 10 miles of over 95% of the population.
Schools across the UK can now access free learning resources linked to the Olympic Torch Relay through Get Set (london2012.com/getset), the official London 2012 education programme. The activities are designed to help schools and colleges make the most of the Relay by lining the route, and cheering on their local Torchbearers. Resources include ideas for making Flame hats and shakers to welcome the Flame.
Footer
About Aberdeen City
Events
Stats and Facts
Social Media
About this Website
Access Keys
Cookie Information
Open Data Statistics
Back to the top
Site info
Feedback
All content © 2017 Aberdeen City Council. All rights reserved.
Tell us what you think about our site...
