BBC News | UK | Institutional racism tag 'over-used'
low graphics version | feedback | help
You are in: UK
Front Page
World
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Business
Sci/Tech
Health
Education
Entertainment
Talking Point
In Depth
AudioVideo
Friday, 24 November, 2000, 16:15 GMT
Institutional racism tag 'over-used'
Watchdog chair criticises unrepresentative assemblies
Commission for Racial Equality chairman Gurbux Singh has condemned over-use of the term institutional racism.
The use of the term has become widespread since the publication of Sir William Macpherson's Stephen Lawrence inquiry, but Mr Singh says constant labelling is "silly".
Mr Singh also said the House of Lords is now the UK's most representative democratic institution in terms of ethnic minorities, with the House of Commons lagging behind.
We need to see that our democratic institutions reflect the composition of modern Britain
Gurbux SinghCRE chairman
In an interview on a politics website, ePolitix.com, he commented that there was "gross under-representation" of ethnic minorities in Britain's political institutions.
But asked whether political parties were institutionally racist, he said: "Institutional racism is an overly-used label."
"What I am concerned about is that political parties accept that frankly there is gross under-representation and they need to do something about it."
Gurbux Singh: Chairman warns public services over new bill
And it was "wholly inadequate" that there were only nine people from ethnic minorities in the House of Commons.
The absence of ethnic minority representatives from the Scottish and Welsh assemblies and
in the Greater London Assembly also came under fire.
He said: "We need to see that our democratic institutions are far more representative, reflecting the composition of modern Britain.
"The nearest institution that comes to that is the House of Lords which is our oldest democratic institution."
'Discriminatory'
Race relations expert Dr Chris Husbands, of the London School of Economics' sociology department, said institutional racism did need a tighter definition.
He said: "To the extent that it is rather loosely and vapidly used Mr Singh has probably got a point."
Dr Husbands defined institutional racism as "practices which are inherent in procedures rather than personalities of an organisation which produce discriminatory and disadvantaged outcomes according to ethnic group membership".
In the interview, Mr Singh also warned that some areas of the public sector "will be found wanting" when the Race Relations Amendment Bill came into force next year.
He identified the NHS and schools as two areas which needed to be looked at closely.
The CRE is a publicly-funded body set up under the Race Relations Act 1976 to tackle racial discrimination and promote equality.
Search BBC News Online
Advanced search options
BBC RADIO NEWS
BBC ONE TV NEWS
WORLD NEWS SUMMARY
BBC NEWS 24 BULLETIN
PROGRAMMES GUIDE
See also:
20 Nov 00 | Education
Young black people demand a say
17 Nov 00 | UK
Racism behind bars
31 Oct 00 | UK
Brixton prison 'institutionally racist'
27 Oct 00 | Education
Teacher racism 'not whole story'
27 Oct 00 | Education
Ethnic pupils 'failed by system'
11 Sep 00 | UK
Police launch race crime guide
Internet links:
Institute of Race RelationsCommission for Racial EqualityUK ParliamentePolitix.com
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
Top UK stories now:
Postcode lottery in GP services
Leanne killer jailed for life
Tories attack Brixton drugs scheme
Straw defends arms sales change
IVF mix-up heads for court
Police shoot man on the M6
New challenge excites Venables
Judge urges life sentence shake-up
Links to more UK stories are at the foot of the page.
E-mail this story to a friend
Links to more UK stories
In This Section
Postcode lottery in GP services
Leanne killer jailed for life
Tories attack Brixton drugs scheme
Straw defends arms sales change
IVF mix-up heads for court
Police shoot man on the M6
New challenge excites Venables
Judge urges life sentence shake-up
Channel 4 boss warns of cuts
Inquiry into warship accident
Chicken checked for BSE
Home collapses after council dig
Schoolboy 'murdered for £10 debt'
'Scout leader' guilty of sex offences
Blair's right-hand men under the spotlight
Parents to sue over epilepsy row
Parents' court battle over MMR jab
Scots killed in Alps fall
Margaret Cook blasts 'NHS meddling'
Drumcree violence 'unacceptable'
Transplant first for cancer patient
Husband jailed for rape attack
GM crop trial sites announced
Britain 'sheltering al-Qaeda leader'
Healthy eating in schools 'backfires'
Political donation rules 'being broken'
Soap actor killed in holiday fall
Church debates links with state
Troubled start to marching season
Link between poverty and truancy
Mobile phone giant denies pension risk
Clampdown on illegal food imports
Abortion plans 'irresponsible'
Disabled pulled from burning minibus
Blunkett to review police reforms
'My mission with the UK marines'
Facing up to life with HIV
Blame it on the driver
Phones, tones and mobile music
Amazing tales from Planet Tabloid
The return of the seagulls
Does my bum look big in this Boeing?
Quiz of the week's news
Papers capture Drumcree violence
^^ Back to top
News Front Page | World | UK | UK Politics | Business | Sci/Tech | Health | Education | Entertainment | Talking Point | In Depth
| AudioVideo
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To BBC Sport>> | To BBC Weather>>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------© MMIII | News Sources | Privacy
