BBC News - Microsoft launches Project Natal and new games for Xbox
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 09:23 GMT, Thursday, 7 January 2010
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Microsoft launches Project Natal and new games for Xbox
By Maggie Shiels
Technology Reporter, BBC News, Las Vegas
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Advertisement
Natal allows gamers to play without touching a controller
Project Natal will go on sale in November 2010, Microsoft has announced.The system allows users to play games controlled by body movements and speech rather than a handheld device. Visitors to the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, also heard that Natal will work on all existing Xbox 360 consoles. "With Project Natal we are allowing you to have the experience you want with technology that's natural for you," said Microsoft's Robbie Bach. Natal's body gesturing system relies on cameras, sensors, microphones and software to understand voice commands and capture the motions of a player as they jump, kick or wave. "We are removing the last barrier to gaming - the controller," said Mr Bach, President of Entertainment and Devices at Microsoft. Project Natal was first announced at the E3 video games conference in June last year. Since then, Microsoft has been inundated with questions about when it would go on sale. At the company's keynote presentation at CES, Mr Bach did not say how much Natal would cost or which countries it would launch in. The audience that packed the Hilton Hotel was also told that in the 10 years since its debut, the Xbox has sold 39 million units and 500m games - generating around $20bn in retail sales. New gamesAlongside the Natal news was the announcement that the next instalment in the popular Xbox game Halo will come out in the autumn. Mr Bach treated the audience to a sneak preview of Halo Reach, but bloggers noted that it had been available on the web for some time. Microsoft also revealed a new Xbox service called Games Room. It follows in the footsteps of other nostalgic offerings from Nintendo and Sony by allowing gamers to play classic arcade games like Atari's Tempest, Sub Hunt, Star Raiders and Astros mash. Thirty games will be available from the spring over the Xbox Live network, enabling users to compete against one another. Microsoft envisages releasing 1000 games over the next three years.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
GADGET WEEK 2010
LATEST NEWS
3D TV to be 'saviour' of industry
Microsoft shows off 'slate' PC
Hi-tech 'stifled' by government
UK e-reader to challenge Kindle
Bigger Amazon Kindle to go global
Project Natal to launch this year
Google unveils Nexus One handset
FEATURES
Tech titans to unveil new toys
Google phone to protect ad empire
BLOGS
Last Gadget Standing
The future of 3D
Microsoft fails to wow
Mr Hollywood on 3D
VIDEO
Reporter breaks 'unbreakable' phone
3D TVs and bird shooting game
'Almost indestructible' hard drive tested
Tech show innovations tested
New gadgets unveiled at tech show
Plastic e-reader launched at tech show
RELATED INTERNET LINKS
About Project Natal (from Microsoft)
Microsoft
CES
Nintendo
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP TECHNOLOGY STORIES
US lifts lid on WikiLeaks probe
Bing gains market share in search
'Virtual human' makes Xbox debut
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
Casualties in blast near Colombia bullring
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Morgan quits TV awards after 'campaign'
BBC News
Kraft Heinz drops Unilever takeover bid
How black women first started working for Nasa
Most popular now, in detail
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Unnamed page
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Chinese diggers battle in the street
Unnamed page
BBC News
BBC News
Unnamed page
Most popular now, in detail
FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS
Ghost town
Has China's housing bubble burst?
The guerilla plant
How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire
Walking away
Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit
Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 20,600 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
