BBC News | Africa | Race quotas imposed on SA rugby
Front Page
World
UK
UK Politics
Business
Sci/Tech
Health
Education
Sport
Entertainment
Talking Point
In Depth
On Air
Archive
Feedback
Low Graphics
Help
Friday, August 6, 1999 Published at 18:03 GMT 19:03 UK
World: Africa
Race quotas imposed on SA rugby
Thabo Mbeki in the Springbok jersey, still largely the preserve of white players
The South African Rugby Football Union is to introduce racial quotas in an attempt to bring more black players into the game.
The BBC's Greg Barrow reports: "Time has almost stood still on the rugby field"A special meeting of the union's executive committee decided that from next year all provincial teams entering a prestigious competition must have a minimum of three black members, with at least two on the field at any time.
It will be the first time quotas have been used in top-flight sport in South Africa, and is a sign of Sarfu's frustration at the intransigence of some provincial rugby unions.
The quotas will not be introduced immediately for teams participating in this year's Currie Cup competition to allow clubs who do not have a sufficient complement of black players on their books time to buy new players for next season.
Accelerating change
BBC correspondent Greg Barrow in Johannesburg says the move will be welcomed by black players who have struggled to break into a sport which is still dominated by white South Africans, especially at the senior levels.
He adds that the rugby authorities hope the ruling will accelerate change within the sport and ensure that more black South Africans emerge as national rugby players.
Natal have failed to field black playersThe national side, known as the Springboks, is still almost entirely white although a number of black and coloured players have made it to the fringes of the team.
Provincial sides have repeatedly been asked to voluntarily field black players in an effort to break down racial divisions in a sport that was long seen as a white-dominated bastion of apartheid.
But provinces like Natal and Free State have still to pick any black players, even though others have selected as many as six.
Rugby has made some significant moves towards integration with the formation of a single national union from the four racially-divided administrative bodies of old.
Nelson Mandela and happier times for South African rugbyAnd perhaps the most famous act of reconciliation was Nelson Mandela's gesture of donning the Springbok jersey to watch South Africa take on New Zealand in the 1995 World Cup final.
The act was recently echoed by the country's second post-apartheid president Thabo Mbeki, when he met the national squad and insisted on putting on the Springbok jersey with which he was presented.
But black talent continues to be lost to a sport that is still widely perceived as a white game, at a time when the national side is going through a massive crisis of confidence following three straight Test defeats - two of them by record margins.
And it is perhaps the clearest indication of a lack of integration that almost as many black presidents as black players have worn the Springbok shirt.
Advanced options | Search tips
Back to top | BBC News Home | BBC Homepage | ©
Africa |
Americas |
Asia-Pacific |
Europe |
Middle East |
South Asia
Relevant Stories
26 Jul 99 | Rugby Union
Teichmann axed by Springboks21 Jul 99 | Rugby Union
Mallett safe despite defeats17 Jul 99 | Rugby Union
Aussies thump Boks by record margin07 Aug 99 | Rugby Union
All Blacks rout South Africa
Internet Links
South African RFU
Currie Cup
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
In this section
Dam builders charged in bribery scandal
Burundi camps 'too dire' to help
Sudan power struggle denied
Animal airlift planned for Congo
Spy allegations bug South Africa
Senate leader's dismissal 'a good omen'
Tatchell calls for rights probe into Mugabe
Zimbabwe constitution: Just a bit of paper?
South African gays take centre stage
Nigeria's ruling party's convention
UN to return to Burundi
Bissau military hold fire
Nile basin agreement on water cooperation
Congo Brazzaville defends peace initiative
African Media Watch
Liberia names new army chief
