BBC News - Sonic and Lara: Video game concept art sold for charity
For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help
BBC iD
BBC iD
Settings
Sign out
BBC navigation
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
TV
Radio
More…
Search term:
Technology
Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts
13 November 2012
Last updated at 00:12
Sonic and Lara: Video game concept art sold for charity
More than 100 pieces of concept art from some of the most iconic video games in history have been put up for auction to raise money for charity. The art, which had been on display at the London Games Festival, will be sold off over the next month.
Some of the most recognisable faces on show. This lot features an original sketch of Sonic the Hedgehog. drawn by Sega's Yuji Uekawa.
Other artwork on offer is from games not yet to hit the shelves. This striking image is from the next instalment in the Tomb Raider series.
"We’re incredibly excited about the potential this auction has," said Kirsty Payne, festival director of the London Games Festival. "Amazing, one-of-a-kind pieces, with all proceeds going to this amazing charity."
Fans of Plants vs Zombies - an addictive game which has achieved mass popularity with its mobile version - will recognise these slow-moving foes.
Much of the artwork has been signed by the artist, including this sketch of Raiden from the Metal Gear Solid series.
As part of its work with disabled people, the Special Effects charity maintains Gamesbase, a resource which offers advice around making the most out of accessible games.
New lots will go up every Monday until the 3 December, and will be displayed on the auction's website, londongamesart.com.
Share this page
Delicious
Digg
Facebook
reddit
StumbleUpon
Twitter
Email
Print
Related Internet links
The London Games Festival Art Exhibition
Services
Mobile
Connected TV
News feeds
Alerts
E-mail news
About BBC News
Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines
BBC links
Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC
PrivacyAccessibility Help
CookiesContact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
