BBC NEWS | Entertainment | Study shows UK TV minorities gap
HomeNewsSportRadioTVWeatherLanguages
[an error occurred while processing this directive]
Low graphics|Accessibility help
One-Minute World News
News services
Your news when you want it
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Arts & Culture
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
RELATED BBC SITES
SPORT
WEATHER
ON THIS DAY
EDITORS' BLOG
Last Updated: Friday, 11 November 2005, 17:49 GMT
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Study shows UK TV minorities gap
Patrick Trueman is a leading character in EastEnders
Ethnic minorities are under-represented in some of the main genres of UK television, a survey has shown.
Minorities account for 7.8% of the population but get only 6.6% of soap parts and 7.5% of factual roles, the Cultural Diversity Network poll found.
Overall, minorities get 8.8% of screen roles, with light entertainment and sport having the highest levels.
The group of major broadcasters says the study of prime time TV showed "more work" was needed to achieve equality.
The study monitored prime time programming for seven days across six channels: BBC1, BBC2, Channel 4, Five, ITV1 and Sky One.
It found that 18.8% of people on sports programmes were from ethnic minorities, with 12.7% in light entertainment roles.
Industry awareness
The level of representation on news programmes was equal to the population level (7.8%).
But only 6% of major roles in dramas and fiction shows went to ethnic minorities, compared with 9.6% in factual programmes.
Cultural Diversity Network chairman Simon Shaps, director of television at ITV, said: "This important research shows that the industry is making real progress but there is still a lot more work to do.
"We need to continue to work together as an industry to raise levels of representation in key genres."
The survey was launched to coincide with the group's annual conference, which aims to raise awareness of diversity issues.
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
SEE ALSO:
Reality TV 'helps race relations'
28 Jun 05 |
UK
Dyke gets racial equality award
25 Oct 04 |
Entertainment
Row over black TV stars
26 Sep 03 |
Entertainment
RELATED INTERNET LINKS:
Cultural Diversity Network
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
TOP ENTERTAINMENT STORIES
U2 reschedule US and Canada dates
Cheryl 'on the mend' says Simon Cowell
Zsa Zsa Gabor taken to hospital
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC Copyright NoticeMMIX
Most Popular Now | 8,971 pages were read in the last minute.";
Back to top ^^
Help
Privacy and cookies policy
News sources
About the BBC
Contact us
