Brett Morse – Olympic Athlete
MailYouTubeTwitterInstagramFacebook
Brett Morse
Olympic Athlete
#ProjectRio
Background
Team Brett
Brett’s Blog
Media
Photowall
Videowall
Partners
Menu
back
#ProjectRio
Follow Brett’s progress to reach the 2016 Olympic Games….
Brett will be documenting his ‘Road to Rio’ through various media including vlogs, blogs and of course social media! Take a look at the #ProjectRio page for more information!
You can also help fund Brett’s #ProjectRio by using the donate button opposite!
#ProjectRio Donations
Sep222015
Progains Fuelling My Way To RIO 2016!!
Obviously being an athlete and having to train multiple times a day what you put into your body for recovery purposes is key! Without the correct fuel your body cannot recover and improve in the way you want it to, as the saying goes you wouldn’t put diesel into a Ferrari…. and if you did…
Details
September 22, 2015
Sep182015
Support going towards the 2016 Olympic Games
With less than twelve months to go to my second Olympic Games, specific training for my build up to this showpiece event has already begun. Plans are in place for the training camps I require, as well as nutritional needs, and the improvements to physical and technical aspects that will have to be made in…
Details
September 18, 2015
Aug42015
August Blog
Recent competitions have been pretty good, my season average is now was up on 2014 and I am in shape to produce something very good very soon. I competed at the Welsh Athletics international mid week and produced my second longest throw of the season (63.30) and then competed on the Saturday in London where…
Details
August 4, 2015
Jul222015
Loughborough European Athletics Permit Meeting
I competed at the Loughborough European athletics permit meeting last weekend. On the start list was myself, Zane Duquemin, Nick Percy, Alan Toward and three European athletes, Hannes Kirchler from Italy and Rutger Smith and Erik Cadee from the Netherlands. It was the best field I have competed in so far in 2015 with 2…
Details
July 22, 2015
Jul142015
New Sponsor
Hi Guys, You may have noticed on my partners section of the site that I have a new sports nutrition sponsor JBC Nutrition. As an athlete is is very important that I choose the correct sports nutrition sponsor for many reasons. First and foremost the products have to be safe which means they have been…
Details
July 14, 2015
Jul62015
British Champion!!
Over the weekend I became British Champion once again in tough conditions at the World Championship trials in Birmingham. A blustery swirling wind which was mostly a 3 metre per second tail wind made it very tough for there to be big performances but I am happy to once again be named British champion, which…
Details
July 6, 2015
MORSEAGRAMSorry:- Instagram feed not found.
Latest Tweets
Tweets by @brett_morse
Contact Brett
Name *
E-mail *
Message *
Submitclear
© 2014 Brett Morse
Designed & Hosted by GDM Hosting
Cookie Policy
footermenu
Brett's site uses cookies More infoNo problem
