The BARC
Competitor Entry System
Officials Login
View Basket
Home
About
Championships
Events & Tickets
Regional Centres
Shop
Contact Us
Join the BARC today for just £35
Membership options to suit everybody's needs. Find out more about joining the BARC
Want to be a racing driver?
Take the ARDS test at Thruxton or Croft circuits to obtain a National B race licence
Become a BARC Marshal
Become actively involved as a Marshal and get closer to the action whilst contributing to the sport you love.
BARC Championship Awards Evening 2017
Saturday 18th February 2017 is a date for the diaries as champions will be honoured at the annual BARC Championship Awards Evening
EGM Notice & Proxy Form
Notice and the Proxy Form for the upcoming EGM on February 28th 2017 is now available.
Go Racing
Find the information you need to start becoming involved in motor sport events. Whether you want to compete or become a marshal/official. BARC venues also offer the ARDS test which you’ll need to complete to obtain a National B race licence.
Membership
The British Automobile Racing Club (BARC) is one of the world’s most established and successful motor racing clubs. Our members enjoy exclusive benefits, exclusive access to motorsport events and preferential rates to numerous events.
BARC Venues
Five venue locations nationwide featuring Thruxton Circuit, Croft Circuit, Pembrey Circuit, Gurston Down Hill Climb and Harewood Hill Climb
See more about starting out in motorsport »
Find out more about becoming a BARC member »
Find out more about BARC venues in the UK »
Latest News
What's new at the British Automobile Racing Club
Gurston Down geared up for golden celebrations
Gurston Down Hillclimb will celebrates its 50th anniversary this year with another bumper season of competitive action and events.
Read More
Renault UK Clio Cup introduce revised sporting regulations for upcoming season
The Renault UK Clio Cup has announced a raft of changes to its sporting regulations ahead of the 2017 season, with the most notable being the removal of dropped scores.
Read More
VTEC Challenge & Smart 4Two Cup join Classic Touring Car Championship grid
The Classic Touring Car Championship will grow in size this year with the additions of both the VTEC Challenge and Smart 4Two Cup.
Read More
James Dorlin further cements BARC championship ladder
Reigning Michelin Clio Cup Series champion James Dorlin has further cemented the diversity of the British Automobile Racing Club's championships by taking another step up the motorsport ladder as he graduates to the Renault UK Clio Cup in 2017.
Read More
View All Articles
Twitter
Follow the BARC on Twitter for racing news and results as it happens.
Follow @OfficialBARCHQ on Twitter
Facebook
Keep up to date with the latest news from The BARC by liking us on Facebook.
Like The BARC on Facebook
YouTube
Watch all the latest footage from The BARC on YouTube
Watch The BARC on YouTube
Podcasts
Audio News and Interviews from the British Automobile Racing Club
Listen on iTunes
Main Navigation
Home
About
Go Racing
Championships
Events & Tickets
Regional Centres
Shop
Contact Us
Latest News
Regional Centres
Midlands
North West
South East
South West
Yorkshire
Wales
Canada (Ontario)
Membership
Membership
Officials & Marshals
Venues
Croft
Gurston Down
Harewood
Pembrey
Thruxton
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Brought To You By:
