About
Introduction
The Centre
Our Staff
Fellowships
Funders
Volunteering at TSRC
Useful links
Contact Us
Research streams
- Below the radar
- Quantitative analysis
- 'Real Times'
- Service delivery
- Theory and policy
Previous research:
- Economic and social impact
- Environment
- Equalities
- Evidence reviews
- Social enterprise
- Workforce and workplace
Publications
Research papers
Journal articles
Major reports
Other publications
News
Latest news
Newsletter subscription
Events
Impact and Media
Media coverage log
Below the radar
Self-help housing
Social enterprise
Collaboration
Joint research
Evaluations
Knowledge sharing
Collaborative research
ESRC seminar series
Knowledge Portal
About the Portal
tsrc
Browser does not support script.
TSRC – the UK's centre for civil society research
The Third Sector Research Centre works to enhance knowledge through independent and critical research.  In collaboration with practitioners, policy makers, and other academics, we explore the key issues affecting charities and voluntary organisations, community groups, social enterprises, cooperatives and mutuals.
Latest research
Community action and social media: trouble in Utopia?
Social media has not been adopted as widely by community organisations as might have been expected. This study explores the gap between claims for the transformative power of social media, and its use by grassroots community groups and organisations in England. It concludes that social media makes too many demands – in terms of skills, time, and the demonstration of impact – to make its adoption sufficiently straightforward for community organisations.
The Story of G: Up; a regional third sector network
In this paper Helen Kara, Associate Fellow atTSRC, provides a critical reflection on the story of G:Up, a regionalinfrastructure network which aimed to support voluntary organisations working with children and young people in the West Midlands.
Latest blogs
From Daiga Kamerāde, Jo Crotty and Sergej Ljubownikow
Is volunteering an outcome or a driver of democratisation ?
From Angus McCabe, Mandy Wilson and Rob Macmillan.
Our Bigger Story: the first chapter. Multimedia evaluation of Big local
Spotlight
Three Parishes Big Local: Using small grants
Changing neighbourhoods: A film about Northfleet Big Local (Kent)
Faith in Social Action: Where next?
Resident Led Change - Two New Films
Sustainable Livelihoods Resource Book
Forthcoming events
To be announced.
Knowledge Portal
Over 6700 documents have now been added to the Third Sector Knowledge Portal, our easy-to-use online library of research, evidence, and analysis.
Stay in touch
Tweets by @3rdSectorRC
Browser does not support script.
Newsletter
© Copyright 2010 by TSRC
Privacy statement
Terms of use
Browser does not support script.
