British Go Association Home Page | British Go Association
A few simple rules ... limitless possibilities
Find a Club
News
Ratings
Tournament Results
Calendar
Join Our Community
Login
HELP
Search this site:
What is Go?
Where can I play?
Tournaments and Events
Books and Sets
How can I play better?
Junior Go
Computers and Go
What is the British Go Association?
Organising and Teaching Go
School Teachers' Info
MEMBERS ACCESS
Contact Us
Book Reviews
Forum Listings
Should we have a public membership list?
Enhancements needed
Forum Notifications
Welcome to the World of Go
Go is one of the world's great strategy board games and originated over 3,000 years ago in China. It is part of popular culture today in Japan, China and Korea, and known as Igo, Weiqi or Baduk respectively in these countries.
Go is a game for two players with just a few simple rules that is fun for all ages. You start with an empty board and then place pieces alternately, vying to map out more territory. However, if you overstretch, your pieces can be captured and taken off the board.
While strategy and tactical calculation both play a
part, intuition and judgement are at least as important; this is why only a
huge advance in AI has enabled computers to play Go at the top level.
Go also has a simple handicapping system that allows level play between players of widely different strengths.
Go provides almost limitless possibilities.
UK Go Challenge: for young players
About the British Go Association
We are a voluntary organisation promoting Go in the UK.
We introduce Go to young people and others and assist with the development of clubs, with teaching events and seminars around the country.
We support and run an on-line league and UK tournaments, and select UK representatives for international events.
Members receive a number of other benefits including a quarterly printed magazine and discounts on Go books and equipment.
To join the British Go Association, please click here.
FOR MEMBERS
Members' Area Access
Change your details
Renew your membership
We belong to the
European Go Federation,
the International Go Federation and
the World Pair Go Association.
We work closely with the English Bridge Union and the English Chess Federation.
Follow us
Printer-friendly version
Last updated Fri Oct 21 2016. If you have any comments, please email the webmaster on web-master AT britgo DOT org.
British Championship 2016 - Junnan Jiang beat Charles Hibbert 2-1
Future Events
Irish Rapid
03 Mar
Trigantius
04 Mar
Irish Open (Confucius Cup)
04 Mar - 05 Mar
Last updated
17-Feb
Latest News
Junnan Jiang Becomes British Champion
Former Durham Player Beats Pro
BGJ 178 Now Available in Members Area
UK Draw With Top Team Poland
Alistair Wall Wins Record Cheshire
