Buckingham Canal Society - Restoring canal heritage for future generations
Home
About Us
Resources
Gallery
Press
Contact
Restoration
Current Projects
Future Projects
Benefits of Restoration
Feasibility and other studies
Map of venues & work sites
History and Heritage
History of the Canal
History of the Society
Map of original route
Memories of a boy
Oral Memories
Surveys of the Arm
Archives
In The Community
Presentations & Talks
Corporate Team Building
Education and Young People
Partners & Patrons
Partnerships
Patrons
Events and News
News
Calendar
Work Parties
Socials
Newsletter
2017 Annual Cosgrove Canal Festival & Craft Fair
Get Involved
Volunteers
Membership
Facebook
Situations Vacant
Donate
Meet the Committee
Health and Safety
Click for more information on this project site.
Welcome to our website where you can find information about Buckingham Canal Society and its work towards the restoration of the Buckingham Canal.
Join us
Our main contact number is
0300 323 1350
Open our calendar by clicking here
Bourton Meadow water top up
Solar powered river abstraction pump now operational to keep the canal at Buckingham end topped up year round. Surplus water returns to the river. All necessary approvals from EA and land owner in place. Plenty of drinking water for the bunny rabbits now!!
MORE INFORMATION
February 8, 2017
AGM and Social Evening – 18th March 2017
It’s time to celebrate another year of The Buckingham Canal Society You are cordially invited to join us for our AGM and annual social gathering with cheese, wine and light refreshments. Help us celebrate 25 years of making restoration a reality. Learn about the canal bridge excavations at Cosgrove. Enjoy a talk by Dr. […]
MORE INFORMATION
February 8, 2017
Bridge One – progress
Good progress on the bridge excavation which how’s now reached equilibrium with the canal water level. Tree stumps are out and we have started work to expose the remaining covered foundations for engineering assessment.  Work parties this Thursday 9th feb and Sunday 12th feb both meeting Lock Lane, Cosgrove at 10 am
MORE INFORMATION
February 5, 2017
Tweet
All content © 2017 by Buckingham Canal Society - Registered Charity number 1156662 - T&Cs
Site Map
