Chypons Farm Self Catering Holiday Cottages in Cornwall
Chypons Farm is a small group of 200 year old stone barns and cottages set around a courtyard and bordered by a small river and woodland. The farm nestles on the side of a valley on the edge of Nancledra, just outside St Ives, and has views across gently rolling hills.
There are three self-contained cottages and a barn to choose from; the spacious 3 bedroom 2 bath Farm Cottage will sleep up to six people, Waterside has two bedrooms and will sleep four, the Barn has two bedrooms and will sleep 3 and River Cottage sleeps 3 with 2 bedrooms and 2 bathrooms.
This part of Cornwall is perfect for those who want a holiday with lots to see and do, or simply want to sit back and relax. St Ives is just 3 miles away (the 16 bus stops just 50 yards up the road and saves the worry of parking) and is a haven for art lovers with the Tate Gallery, the Hepworth Gallery and a range of small galleries and unique shops.
Close by are Penzance and Newlyn for lovers of fresh fish, and Mousehole with its picturesque harbour and both the north and south coasts of Cornwall can be seen from the surrounding Lelant Downs  and Penwith moor which feature in the writings of Rosamunde Pilcher who was born in nearby Lelant.
There are breath-taking walks along the coastal paths, visits to the Eden Project and Lost Gardens of Heligan, and the experience of Land's End, St Michael's Mount and the stunning 3 mile stretch of sandy beach at Gwithian with Godrevy bay with its resident colony of seals.
If you still feel energetic there is horse riding, fishing and of course surfing on some of the county's finest beaches which are all short drive and to finish the day a trip to our local the Engine Inn with its local fresh food and cask ales.
Book direct with us at Chypons farm for the best guaranteed rate
and have a Cream tea upon arrival in your cottage.
Cornwall's gardens are just starting to come into bloom so for a weeks stay before Easter we are offering free tickets to enjoy the Lost gardens of Heligan.
Disclaimer
(c) Last
updated 19th February 2017
Website developed by WesternWeb
