London 2012. Well, at least it doesn't have Big Ben on it - Creative Review
Our website uses cookies to improve your user experience. If you continue browsing, we assume that you consent to our use of cookies. More information can be found in our Privacy & Cookies Policy.
X
Skip to content
Creative Review
The best in creativity
Primary Menu
London 2012. Well, at least it doesn’t have Big Ben on it London 2012’s “multimedia brand image” was unveiled today by Lord Coe, chairman of London’s Olympic committee. Designed by Wolff Olins the logo is, apparently, based on the four *ahem* brand pillars of access, participation, stimulation and inspiration. So-far-so-predicatable: but who would have guessed it would quite turn out… like this?
By Mark Sinclair
4 June 2007
4:39 pm
London 2012’s “multimedia brand image” was unveiled today by Lord Coe, chairman of London’s Olympic committee. Designed by Wolff Olins the logo is, apparently, based on the four *ahem* brand pillars of access, participation, stimulation and inspiration. So-far-so-predicatable: but who would have guessed it would quite turn out… like this?
In an accompanying and characteristically hyperbolic press statement, Lord Coe claimed that “London 2012 is inspired by you and it’s for all of you.” What he really means is that 2012 is aiming to become the Games of inclusivity – or “Everyone’s Games” as the brand vision has it – initially by having both emblems for the Olympic and Paralympic Games constructed from the same core shape.
Indeed, this shape (well, four shapes really) is so designed that it will work on a range of different media. It’s likely that in a further five year’s time, people will be accessing Olympic content on an even greater number of devices – thus, a shape, rather than a word marque, seems appropriate for a certain amount of transferability; at least on-screen.
But, aesthetically? Due to the recent exhibition and book, Otl Aicher’s scheme for the Munich 72 games is very much in the minds of today’s design community. It has become the benchmark for the heights that Olympic graphic design can achieve.
And this seems to make the logo for London 2012 appear all the more shocking.
“They can expect quite a polarised reaction because it’s quite radical,” says Ciarán Coyle, MD of brand licensing company The Beanstalk Group, “and from a creative point of view, it will develop the debate. The design is very simple and that’s what’s different to the previous Olympic logos, where the city’s name and year are next to each other. Here, the focus is on the notion of ‘2012’. What’s interesting from a licensing perspective is that they can take this logo and put it on lots of different media. It needs to be downloadable, be visible on a phone, a website and so on.”
William Higham, futurologist and founder of Next Big Thing, suggests that a key issue for Wolff Olins was making the logo appeal to a wide range of different audiences. “It was important to make it flexible and appealing to audiences across the board,” he says. “The multi-cultural youth demographic was very important. They need something that they can adapt themselves and so user-generated content is coming in there. People are into the idea of having something that works on that level, something that suggests a ‘participatory Games’. When the event is broadcast there will more people there filming it on their phones, blogging about it. I don’t think it’ll date because it’s not tied to a particular font, or style – we still have to see it in context and get used to it. I think it will still have a vibrancy; it’s very bold.”
Bold is certainly one word for it. But we’ve encountered a few others during our our heated discussion here in the CR office and from emails coming in. One noted London designer contacted us to ask “Have you seen the 2012 logo? Fuck.” So here are some initial thoughts:
Pros
It’s original and brave.
It contains none of the following: Big Ben, bulldogs, crowns and assorted other royal paraphernalia, the Union Jack, cross of St George, Pearly Kings and Queens, abstract figures doing vaguely athletic things.
It will work across a range of media, which will be vital in 2012 when coverage of the Games will break over a range of formats – eg mobile phones, PCs.
Children will probably like it and, like Whitney, we believe that they are the future…
Anything that annoys the Evening Standard this much can’t be all bad
Cons
You can’t read it very easily.
It already seems outdated – New Rave may be very On Trend with the fashion world this season but this still has five years of life to live out.
It’s inelegant and brash (unlike the restrained beauty of, say, Aicher’s work for Munich in 1972) – and what does that say about London?
It looks a bit like something Neil Buchanan might have put together on Art Attack. And, as a result, graphic design will receive another pasting in the popular press. “How much? My kid could have done better…”
If you stare at it long enough, some dirty-minded bloggers have been saying, it kind of looks like Lisa Simpson giving someone a blow job
Let us know what you think.
News
You may also like
Eduardo Paolozzi: A man of ceaseless creativity
17 February 2017
10:27 am
Richard Mosse on Incoming, a striking new installation
16 February 2017
4:52 pm
Terms and Conditions: The Graphic Novel
16 February 2017
3:19 pm
The pros and cons of mixing advertising with politics
16 February 2017
11:43 am
Natasha Khan: Musician/Artist/Director
15 February 2017
1:29 pm
Wolfgang Tillmans, 2017: an exhibition for now
14 February 2017
6:53 pm
More from CR
News Look mum, a Serif Fairy! The Serif Fairy meets a frog (who’s actually a P and a Q set in Shelley Andante Script)
The Serif Fairy is in a bit of a typographical predicament. It’s nothing to do with her kerning, her leading, or even her italicised “O” for a head – it’s, in fact, far worse. She’s gone and lost one of her wings and can no longer perform her magic…
29 May 2007
5:26 pm
News Visionaire’s puzzling issue Maurizio Cattelan’s puzzle for Visionaire issue 51
Visionaire, the fabled art and fashion “magazine”, is about to appear in its 51st incarnation. While the issues differ radically from one to the next, each is dedicated to a particular theme that a host of celebrated artists set out to interpret. The latest, published in a couple of weeks, takes the theme of “harmony” and contains six large-scale 25-piece jigsaw puzzles.
1 June 2007
5:13 pm
News But What Would They Have Made Of This? With the enormous barrel of nastines currently being dumped all over the London 2012 logo, we wondered what the reception might have been for some of its predecessors had they been released today. What comments, for example, might the Herr in the strasse have come out with when confronted with design’s holiest of holies, the Munich 1972 logo?
7 June 2007
7:14 am
Feature News Crit Who won what, and why? We ask a panel of leading industry ﬁgures to discuss this year’s D&AD Awards and the organisation’s current status in the creative community
31 May 2007
11:00 pm
JobsView more
Graphic Designer
Amayse
Graphic Designer
Mark Allen Group
Online Creative Designer
Next
Product Designer & Graphic Designer
Thumbs Up (UK) Ltd.
Make the most of CR
Submit your work
Share your latest work with Creative Review
Receive our newsletter
The very best of creativity delivered in our daily email
Subscribe to CR in print
Choose from 1, 2 or 3 year subscriptions to CR in print
Studio Sense
Advice on running your creative business
Creative Review
Search
Go
Sign in or register
Email
Password
orRegister
Close Subjects
Typography
Illustration
Branding
Advertising
Books
Graphic Design
Photography
Film & TV
Digital
Themes
Age
Football
CR’s Top 20 logos
Fashion & Luxury
Music
Food & Drink
Learning
The Mozilla rebrand
2016 in review
Writers
Patrick Burgoyne
Mark Sinclair
Eliza Williams
Rachael Steven
Salonee Gadgil
Rick Poynor
Paul Belford
James Greenfield
Daniel Benneworth-Gray
More
Work
Jobs
Careers advice
Studio Sense
Creative Leaders
Exposure
The Photography Annual 2016
Subscribe to the magazine
Contact
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Contact
Privacy Policy
Subscribe
T&Cs
© 2016. All rights reserved.
built by interconnect/it
Centaur Communications Ltd (a member of the Centaur Media plc group)
Wells Point, 79 Wells Street, London W1T 3QN. Registered in England No: 1595235
