Personal Trainer Courses and Fitness Qualifications | HFE
HFE
Search
Basket
0
Your basket is disappointingly empty
view all courses
Call Us
0800 612 4067
Menu
Courses
All Courses
Personal Trainer
Exercise To Music
Special Populations
Pilates Teacher Training
Exercise Specialist
Yoga Teacher Training
Venues
All Venues
Birmingham
Cardiff
Doncaster
London
Manchester
Nottingham
York
Support
Student Login
Book a Resit
FAQs
Student Support
Funded Training Courses
Booking Terms
Policies
Contact Us
Get in Touch
Company Bookings
Work for Us
More
Articles
Apprenticeships
Advanced Learning Loans
Military
Resources
Mock Exams
Fitness Career Guides
Learning Styles Questionnaire
Sample Training Manuals
Personal Trainer Documentary
Download
We’ve just launched our brand new app!
Most Popular
Mock Exam: Level 3 Anatomy Physiology for Exercise
Article: Maigne’s Syndrome
Article: Adapting Pilates for Low Back Pain
Interview: Laura Massaro (World No.1 Squash Player)
do more
achieve more
become more
become a personal trainer
Personal trainers are the backbone of the fitness profession and with their expert exercise and nutrition advice, they propel clients to achieve their goals.
If you’re passionate about health and fitness, see our personal trainer courses to enrol today.
more info
yoga courses
learn more
pilates courses
learn more
special populations
learn more
exercise to music
learn more
exercise specialist
learn more
what the experts say
Kardy Laguda
(International Fitness Presenter)
"HFE is the most professional and cutting edge fitness provider I have ever seen."
Holly Bradshaw
(Team GB Olympic Pole Vaulter)
"HFE have produced some of the best materials I have seen in education."
Laura Massaro
(World No. 1 Squash Player)
"The course has really helped me to better understand yoga so that I can improve my performance and remain World No. 1"
Laura Turner-Alleyne
(Team GB Olympic Sprinter)
“I would recommend HFE to anyone looking for health and fitness qualifications.”
student reviews
Rating: 5 out of 5
Excellent exercise to music course!
business
Health and Fitness Education
7 & 8 Roundhouse Court, Barnes Wallis Way, Buckshaw Business Centre
Chorley
Lancashire,
PR7 7JN
United Kingdom
The course was a lot more involved and time consuming than I expected however it was really interesting. The 2 practical weekends were really good . Yes I would recommend HFE for doing your exercise to music course.
Rating: 4 out of 5
Cheaper than elsewhere but best course so far
business
Health and Fitness Education
7 & 8 Roundhouse Court, Barnes Wallis Way, Buckshaw Business Centre
Chorley
Lancashire,
PR7 7JN
United Kingdom
I found out about HFE from the colleague and didn't hesitate as it was the cheapest course I've found. Following recommendations I haven't been disappointed. We had a fantastic tutor and the whole communication was very easy.
read all reviews
unlimited support as standard
We’re fanatical about our support and our team will stop at nothing to ensure that you have everything you need to succeed. Our systems are flexible and as such we will always strive to meet your individual needs. Support is also unlimited - we really are with you every step of the way.
more info
Explore our courses
Personal Training: Industry Insiders
Pilates Courses and Qualifications
Personal Trainer Courses by HFE
Level 2 Exercise to Music Course
Yoga Teacher Training - Level 3 Diploma Course
Personal Training: Industry Insiders
Personal Trainer Courses and Fitness Qualifications
Welcome to HFE, an award-winning training provider setting the platinum standard for fitness industry qualifications. Over the years we’ve earned our reputation for delivering unbeatable value that goes far and beyond what a student pays for their course. Our extensive and unlimited support comes as standard with every qualification and our innovative, interactive teaching and learning resources are second to none. Our commitment to quality is firm and we are unwavering in our desire to see our students succeed in their training and future employment.
HFE specialises in personal trainer courses, exercise to music, yoga, Pilates, special populations and exercise specialist qualifications. We go far and beyond the standard framework for these courses, offering our students the chance to gain a broader and deeper level of knowledge, skills and confidence. When our graduates go out into the world, they are not only incredibly employable, but also desired by the biggest gym, health club and leisure chains in the country. We also instil a confidence in them that they can go on to craft a successful business centred on themselves.
Even before a student enrols and gains access to learning materials, our dedicated team of technical experts work tirelessly to ensure our content-rich lessons plans, training and e-learning programmes are up to date and technically accurate. The results really do speak for themselves. In a typical month, support tutors spend well over 130 hours on the phone, make nearly 1,000 outbound calls and receive almost 900 inbound calls. This has led to 87% of our students passing their theory exams first time and a 97% positive response rate from learners accessing our learning systems.
Everything we do is in service of helping our students and commercial partners. ‘Become more’ isn’t just a catchy slogan; it’s a statement of intent. Those two simple words embody the values and attitudes we adhere to each and every day. Our students and staff alike are encouraged to commit to a programme of lifelong learning, a path that guarantees personal success and fulfilment.
Read More
Request More Information
Call Us 0800 612 4067
Email Us
CloseX
Request more information
For further information about our courses, our site or about the fitness industry, please complete the form below and we will contact you asap. To enable us to respond to your query please complete all required (*) fields.
Sign Up To Our Newsletter
Sign up and become more
Join our exclusive mailing list and never miss out on interviews with leading professionals, deals and offers, workout inspiration, and much, much more
X
I’m interested in hearing about:
Personal Trainer
Yoga
Nutrition
Pilates
Exercise To Music
Exercise Specialist
Newsletter
#becomemore
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Linkedin
Instagram
Pinterest
Copyright © HFE 2017
Site-Map
Privacy & Cookie Policy
Terms & Conditions
Student Login
