Italian Football Betting Tips and Serie A Odds | Football Italiano
Home
The FI Podcast
Twitter
News
Clubs
Transfer Latest
Serie A
Stadia
Fixtures
Results
League Table
Serie B
Europe
Europa League
Champions League
Azzurri
Serie A Tickets
Bari Tickets
Bologna Tickets
Brescia Tickets
Cagliari Tickets
Catania Tickets
Cesena Tickets
Chievo Tickets
Fiorentina Tickets
Genoa Tickets
Inter Tickets
Juventus Tickets
Lazio Tickets
Lecce Tickets
Milan Tickets
Napoli Tickets
Palermo Tickets
Parma Tickets
Roma Tickets
Udinese Tickets
Free bets
About Us
Links
Work for us
Serie A title battle heats up
Can Fiorentina go the distance?
Can Juventus go unbeaten in Serie A this season?
AS Roma planning to build £1bn stadium for 2017/18 season
Three teams who could prize Arturo Vidal away from Juventus
How far can Juventus dream for Champions League progression?
Salah replaces Chelsea’s CuadradoFiorentina lost Juan Cuadrado to Chelsea as the winger moved to London on the transfer deadline day for a deal worth around £23million.
EPA
Losing Cuadrado is a blow to the Viola’s push for a top-three finish in Serie A, however, they have struck another deal with Chelsea, signing winger Mohammed Salah on an 18-month loan contract.
As the deal looks like an exchange between the two clubs, the arrival of Egyptian Salah may soften the ...MoreDi Natale showing no sign of slowingFrancesco Totti, Roma icon and the leading active Serie A goal scorer, is the last Italian player to conquer all of Europe when it comes to finding the net. Not since 2006-07 has a native of the peninsula - Totti - claimed the prestigious European Golden Shoe and a glance at the Serie A top scorers suggests it might be a while before it happens again. But if there is a player who can top the goals chart across the continent, it might be...MoreRoma v Milan - Chase on at the topAC Milan take on high-flying Roma on Saturday in another action packed weekend of Serie A fixtures.
New Milan manager, Filippo Inzaghi, must get his tactics perfectly right in order stifle a Roma side that has been playing with plenty of entertaining performances, with their high-scoring offensive line and physical defence proving a huge success this campaign.
Tough taskThe Rossoneri have been struggling this season, having only won...MoreThree players who could arrive in Serie A in JanuaryWith the end of the calendar year fast approaching, managers will have one eye on the upcoming January transfer market with a view to strengthening their squad. Although there is plenty of football to be played before the winter break, new arrivals can make a big difference for team challenging for the Scudetto, competing for an European spot or battling to avoid relegation to Serie B. It is an excellent opportunity for Serie A managers...MorePogba living up to self-proclaimed hypePaul Pogba has never been shy at proclaiming his own talent but it seems the Juventus midfielder is finally living up to his undoubted potential.
Released by Manchester United when aged 19, there were fears his name would be the latest added to the long list of teen prodigies who were on the scrapheap by their early 20s after failing to make the grade. Pogba has had to take a step back on his own carefully-planned career progression ...More5 Serie A Players Destined for the Premier LeagueIt may seem as if the summer transfer window has only just shut but with the European campaigns underway across Europe, scouts are already looking at potential purchases at the start of 2015. Italian based players will always attract their fair share of interest and here are five men who could be heading for the Premiership before the end of January.
Arturo Vidal – JuventusThe Chilean midfielder looks set to follow the path trodden b...MoreView All Articles
The tactical Serie A is an excellent league for those of you interested in betting. Read all the latest on Italian football at Football Italiano, including Up-to-date Betting News.
Images courtesy of Action Images / Reuters / Fotosports
| © 2010 footballitaliano.co.uk | Privacy | Terms
| Contact us: admin@footballitaliano.co.uk
