Football Unites, Racism Divides • Home
Telephone 0114 2587787
Email enquiries@furd.org
Home
About us
News
Subscribe
Our work
Resources & information
FURD's home at the U-Mix Centre
Football Unites Racism Divides (FURD) is a youth and social inclusion project and charity (charity number 1075678 and 1149203) based in Sheffield, England, which works locally, nationally and internationally to combat racism and increase understanding between different communities.
Read or follow our Tweets at: www.twitter.com/furdday
See or like our Facebook page at: www.facebook.com/furdsheffield
U-Mix Centre website: www.u-mix-centre.org
U-Mix Centre news at: www.facebook.com/pages/U-Mix-Centre-Sheffield/455325404520171
Watch our short films at www.youtube.com/furdengland
Subscribe to our e-newsletter at http://www.furd.org/default.asp?intPageID=267
Latest News
New partnership working with Sheffield Wednesday
FURD is starting to do some partnership work with Sheffield Wednesday, intially to jointly run our coaching sessions for 11-16 year olds at U-Mix Centre Sheffield on Wednesdays from 4.30-6pm....
15 February 2017
FURD's 'veteran' footballers go from strength to strength
FURD's football work has a particular focus on improving opportunities for under-represented groups, including women over 35. There has been a lack of opportunities for women to play football just for fun, friendship and fitness....
7 February 2017
FURD walking football in partnership with Shipshape
Football Unites Racism Divides in partnership with Shipshape Health and Wellbeing are bringing back Walking Football at the U-Mix Centre Sheffield every Tuesday 1pm-2pm from February 7th....
24 January 2017
FURD Talent Match clients recognised for achievements
FURD employs two workers - Sajaad Rauf and Saudat Adinani - as Talent Match coaches - a Big Lottery Fund programme to provide individually tailored support to young people aged 18-24 to help them access training,education, employment and enterprise....
17 January 2017
FURD's trip to the Liberte Cup unites refugees and football fans
In September 2016, London based charity Fuze, in partnership with online football media platform Copa90, organised The Liberte Cup as a consequence of their engagement work during the previous 12 months or so with refugees living in a camp in Grande ...
11 January 2017
View all the news in full
England star Kyle Walker (left) at a FURD Streetkick event, Mount Pleasant Park, Sheffield.
Donate to FURD
FURD is a charity. Please consider making a donation to MyDonate page if you can to help our work to continue. Thank you.
Black footballers
Did you know that Arthur Wharton, the world’s first black professional footballer was playing way back in 1889? Discover the contribution that Arthur and other black pioneers have made to the game. Resource library
We have collated an incredible resource library on racism in football.  Search our library online, then arrange to borrow the item.
We also have a selection of resources available online for direct download.
Racism in football
Learn how racism has blighted the beautiful game and the measures being taken to stamp it out.  Compare the situation in continental Europe and how Football Unites, as a founding member of FARE (Football Against Racism in Europe), are tackling the problem head on.  Discuss you views with other website users in our discussion forum.
Refugees at their first Sheffield United match
Our work
Football Unites uses young people’s love of the game to bring communities together and educate them about the dangers of racism.  We encourage minority groups to become actively involved in playing the game.  We work with professional clubs to ensure that the game is safe to watch by all spectators.
Subscribe
Join our mailing list and be kept up-to-date of news and events at Football Unites and developments in the campaign.
Guestbook
Do you support the campaign?  Why not leave a message of support in our guestbook?
All content, unless otherwise stated, is copyright of Football Unites, Racism Divides.
