Ghostcycle Travel Blog – Best Travel Site
Toggle navigation
Ghostcycle Travel Blog
Home
About
Contact
Privacy
Quick And Easy India Visa Online
India is a country which is rich in culture, diversity and history; this is why it’s attracting attention of more people and therefore becoming more popular with tourists. Travelling here is becoming more affordable and easier. A lot of different people are attracted to India for many different reasons; some just want to go on a warm relaxing holiday and other want to make the most of their holiday by visiting their amazing sights such as the Taj Mahal or going on a gourmet tour. Recently India’s government chose to establish the e-Tourist visa program, this is the India visa online, it’s for a certain number of countries including Australia, France, Belgium and the United States; 74 countries are part of this. Citizens who are from one of these 74 countries can apply for the India visa online from the comfort of their own home by going onto the government website and filling out the application. The visa gets processed and issued electronically before being sent to the applicants email. You will need to make sure that you’re carrying a copy of the visa ready with you when you are boarding your flight. Once you arrive in India you will have your biometric information taken at the airport; this means a fingerprint test and photograph will be taken. To obtain the visa all you have to do is complete four quick and easy steps. First you will have to apply for the India visa online by filling out the application; you will then verify your personal details to make sure that everything is correct. Next you will pay the fee for the visa and lastly all you have to do is wait for the visa to arrive in your email. For more information about indian e visa, please click the link.
The application for the India visa online can be made up to 34 days before your arrival in India but no less than 4 days, as you need to leave plenty of time for your visa to be accepted especially in case there are any issues. The India visa online will stay valid for 30 days after being accepted and grants one entry into India. You can apply for up to two of these visas in a year, however if you would like to visit more than this and stay for more than 30 days you are still able to apply for the traditional visa. You can arrive at a choice of 16 designated airports including Mumbi, Jaipur and Kochi. You will be working with a UK based agent, they will help to sort any issues, answer any questions that you may have and make sure that your application runs smoothly. They will make sure that you have completed all of your application correct, they do this because mistakes can be made very easily and mean a delay in the process they want to prevent this, and also they will make sure that you have attached all of the necessary documents for verifying your identity. They want you to be at peace of mind knowing your application has been completed and the payment has been made safely. Also, if you have any issues or questions then you can contact one of their agent’s at any time, via email or telephone and they will give you a fast response. If there is any issues they will contact you themselves to make sure everything gets sorted in time.
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
India Visa OnlineIndia Visa Online
How The New ESTA Visas Can Save Time And Make Travel Easier
The US now has a new Visa that is designed to make travel easier to and from certain countries. It is called the Electronic System for Travel Authorization or ESTA visum for short. The travelers from the eligible countries are now required to apply for this visa rather than other types like the business B-1 or tourist visas. This is in order to quicken the pace of applications and travel to the US. Those that are entering by land, however, are not required to have this visa. Only travelers by air or sea will need to apply.
The ESTA Visa Takes The Place Of The Others
Technically the ESTA Visa is a waiver of the normal visa and those that are traveling by air or sea will no long have to apply for visas to the US. You can get travel authorization in less than 72 hours before your travel time and it can be done over the Internet on a US.Gov website for convenience.
You still will need a valid passport that is readable by the electronic readers that are at the airport on arrival. All new passports meet this requirement already, but if you an old one you should check to be sure. Only certain countries are in the ESTA system so only those are eligible for the waiver, all other countries must apply for the regular visa and be accepted as usual.
Since the Electronic System for Travel Authorization is only good for up to 90 days, if you plan on visiting for a longer period of time you will need to apply for the standard visa, either tourist, business, or educational. Work is not permitted on this type of visa at all. Plus, most people will have to be fingerprinted or submit some other type of biometric ID on the fist visit. This is to prevent terrorism, fake passports, and identity theft for foreign sources.
People With Dual Citizenship Don’t Need One
If you have dual citizenship with the US and some other country you won’t need this visa at all. But, if you have dual citizenship with an eligible country and a non-eligible country you will need to use your passport from the eligible country to apply and also on entry to the US. Otherwise, if you want to enter using your non-eligible country visa, you’ll need to apply for the standard visa and be accepted.
The new Electronic System for Travel Authorization Visas are faster to obtain and easier to use than the old visa system. If you are from an eligible country, the first visit will take a little longer, but subsequent visits will be faster and with less hassle than usual.
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
ESTA VisasESTA Visas
Fulfilment and Logistics Made Simple
Source & sell – leave the rest to 3PL
Privately owned and formed in 2006, 3P Logistics is a fresh thinking UK Logistics Company firmly attuned to the evolution of retail logistics and the evolving demands of the 21st Century consumer.
ISO accredited and with access to over 150,000 sq. feet of secure warehousing we are entrusted by many National and International businesses to fulfil thousands of orders weekly. We welcome businesses of all shapes and sizes and take great satisfaction in supporting their business growth.
What is a 3PL?
Third–party logistics (abbreviated 3PL) in logistics and supply chain management is a company’s use of third party businesses to outsource elements of the company’s fulfillment and logistics services.
Why Choose 3P Logistics?
At 3P Logistics we believe in giving our clients choice and flexibility at a competitive price.
Our fully integrated service offering represents a modern day “logistics ecosystem” that affords you the choice of outsourcing whole or part of your supply chain activities. We provide full end to end warehousing and logistics support underpinned by web based reporting. Such diversity sets us apart from the many traditional operators that have simply failed to evolve.
With B2C & B2B e commerce order fulfilment at the very heart of the offering our wider warehousing and logistics services further satisfies the growing demand for a fully integrated fulfilment supply chain. From multi-modal freight forwarder management, general warehousing and drop ship operations to order e fulfilment, reverse logistics and network delivery we have every aspect of supply chain covered.
Our extensive offering is further enhanced by our very own fulfillment technology platform putting you in control of your operations from anywhere in the world and at any time of the day. Businesses choose to outsource their order fulfilment operations to us for many reasons including:
Great Service – Instant access to sector leading service levels.
Competitive Pricing – Access to group buying power
Industry Knowledge – Access to sector expertise and leaner fulfillment operations.
Flexibility – Access to increased capacity and wider operating windows.
If scalable operations and increased efficiency are important to your business then why not join the growing number of businesses opting to outsource their fulfilment and logistics operations to 3P Logistics.
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
Freight Forwarder ServiceFreight Forwarder Service
What Is a Kanada eTA And Do You Need to Get One Before You Travel?
Anytime you travel internationally, there are certain documents that are required to enter foreign countries. In the case of Canada, you may be required to obtain an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA).
In essence, a Kanada eTA is a special type of authorization that is directly linked with your passport. Canadian officials require foreigners from most countries entering Canada without a visa to obtain this authorization. The only exceptions are American citizens who are entering the country by sea or by land. They are not required to get an eTA. However, visitors from the U.S. who are flying into the country do need to obtain one.
You can apply online through the official website. All that you need is your passport, a credit card, and some basic personal information. The application process simply involves filling out a form and submitting it. The cost for the authorization is currently $7.00 CAN, although that is subject to change over time.
Once your eTA is approved, it is automatically linked to your passport electronically. Each eTA is good for five years or until your passport expires, depending on which comes sooner. After it expires, you can simply apply for a new one if you still need access to Canada.
One of the nice things about this type of authorization is that there is no need to print anything or to carry any additional documents with you. Instead, the authorization will automatically show up when your passport is scanned since the two documents are linked together.
If you are planning on flying to Canada, it is important to apply for this authorization as soon as possible. You may not be allowed to fly without it if you arrive at the airport and have not yet obtained it. There are last-minute application opportunities available online if you have access to the Internet with a mobile device. However, it is always best to be properly prepared so that you don’t wind up running into any trouble that could delay your travel plans.
A Kanada eTA is a special type of travel authorization that is required by the Canadian government for anyone who is entering Canada without a visa from foreign countries. The only exception is the United States. Citizens traveling from the U.S. only need an eTA if they are entering the country by air – not by sea or by land.
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
Kanada eTAKanada eTA
Looking For The Best Hotels In Manchester?
Are you searching for the best hotels in Manchester? If so, you have come to the right place. With a host of lovely hotels in Manchester, reserving the ideal space is not going to be an easy task. In fact, you should perform extensive research when reserving a reputed hotel in the area. There is a wide option of hotels to choose from in Manchester – starting from small boutique hotels to the 21st century grande dames. On the other hand, if you are looking for an upmarket hotel, you can try the Principal or the Midland to satisfy your needs. Budget travelers are also served by a wide selection of chain hotels that are well-maintained. Here are some of the best hotels in the area.
Great John Street Hotel – This is a great boutique hotel which was a school once upon a time. There are suites and rooms that are richly decorated to satisfy your needs. There are two bars with one of them being a rooftop bar and other interesting spaces here. The hotel is located close to the Opera House in Manchester.
Abel Heywood Boutique Hotel – This is another great boutique hotel in the area. It is located in the Northern Quarter of Manchester. The free Wi-Fi breakfast area and Manchester fry-up areas are salient features of this hotel. The hotel is located within walking distance to most of Central Manchester region.
King Street Townhouse – This is another popular hotel in Manchester. It is considered an upmarket establishment with 40 bedrooms. The building was once owned by the Manchester Salford Trustees Bank which was built in 1872 and later transformed into one of the most charming hotels in Manchester. The King Street Tavern restaurant and the Infinity pool in the spa area are some of the salient features of this establishment.
In conclusion, searching for a good hotel in Manchester should be done with utmost care. With a host of establishments in the area, how will you pick the right hotel to satisfy your needs? In fact, you should do some research before picking the right hotel in the area. This is where the Internet comes in handy. You can search Google to find some of the best restaurants in the area. This read offers information on some of the best hotel establishments in Manchester in the United Kingdom.
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
Hotels In ManchesterHotels Manchester
An ESTA Visa USA Application
Electronic Travel Authorization (ESTA) application form is an online system implemented by the United States Government and managed by the Department of Homeland Security, that determines the eligibility of citizens or nationals of designated countries to travel to the United States, prior to initiating the travel. Before you proceed, make sure to check out this resource for  USA ESTA.
The purpose of this application is to conduct an initial screening of passengers before opening the right to enter the United States. The online form replaces the onboard paper and customs entry requirements for all passport holders of visa waiver countries.
Electronic Travel Authorization (ESTA) application forms became mandatory on January 12, 2009, to reinforce security. All travelers on business or holiday, from countries who previously were beneficiaries of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) must now apply online and obtain an ESTA before their trip to the United States.
Everything You Need To Know About obtaining your ESTA
To make sure that your trip to the United States Of America is a smooth one, here is your complete guide to the travel and tourism visa known as the Electronic System for Travel Authorization. This visa is very easy to acquire and buying your visa from us today will ensure a smooth a simple transition through customs and passport control when you arrive in America.
The Visa Waiver Program Explained
Historically, a full visa was required in order for foreign nationals to enter the US no matter the reason for visiting or the duration of the stay. More recently, The Department Of Homeland Security and United States Customs and Border Protection have provided a Visa Waiver Program whereby foreign nationals are now able to travel to the country without a full visa, as long as they meet certain criteria and obtain Electronic System for Travel Authorization , which is the visa waiver and is available to buy from this website.
How Long Is My ESTA Valid For?
An approved Electronic System for Travel Authorization is valid for 2 years from the issue date.
However, a new ESTA visa may be required in the following change of circumstances;
Change of name
Being issued with a new passport
Change of gender
Change of Country/Citizenship
Your eligibility criteria change
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
ESTA Visa USAESTA Visa USA
MALAYSIA, The Reserved Side Of Asia – Travel Documentary
VKFacebookTwitterGoogle+
Read More
Travel
Categories
ESTA Visa USA
ESTA Visas
Freight Forwarder Service
Hotels In Manchester
India Visa Online
Kanada eTA
Travel
TagsESTA Visas
ESTA Visa USA
Freight Forwarder Service
Hotels Manchester
India Visa Online
Kanada eTA
ghostcycle.org.ukNew traveltechnology.com WebsiteI am pleased to announce the launch of the new Travel Tech Consulting Website at http://www.traveltechnology.com. With the launch of the new site I will be discontinuing my blog at traveltechnology/blogspot.com as the new site incorporates my blog, Twitter feed and company information. Here is the new RSS http://traveltechnology.com/wp-rss.php. Please visit http://www.traveltechnology.com for more information […]Airline Twitter Network Analysis with NodeXLTravel Tech Consulting, Inc. and Connected Action Consulting Group LLC have put together a brief video presentation that provides insight into network analysis for airline Twitter feeds using the open source tool NodeXL. Network analysis goes beyond simply monitoring brand or promoting specials using social media. Network analysis allows travel companies to understand who are […]Yes UA Breaks Guitars Does Impact LoyaltyMy wife's Facebook friend recently posted this message declaring that she does not fly UA because they break guitars. I recently spoke at the EzRez Thought Leadership Conference and I mentioned the now famous YouTube video which has received over 8 million viewings. A question from the audience was simply whether people would change their […]The SplinternetForrester analyst Josh Bernoff recently posted a blog regarding the end of the golden age of the Web and the rise of the Splinternet. As it name implies, the new environment consists of multiple devices with content and audiences fragmented across these platforms.What does this mean for the future of travel distribution? This represents both […]IPhone Hits the EnterpriseWith eWeek reporting that 70% of the Fortune 500 are evaluating iPhone for the enterprise, the corporate travel industry needs to take note. From my view the debate is over regarding download verses mobile Web. Transcoding your Web page for the mobile browser is still important, but the value of a downloadable app for a […]
Proudly powered by WordPress
Theme Flation by Chernousikov SO
