Gorgs4Gold - Gorgs4Gold News
London 2012G4G PursuitsHomeAbout MeMy GalleryMy Achievements / Blog20152014201320122008201120102009In the PressMy SponsorsAirgun-Targets.comHawksmoorFingle Bridge InnHelpful HolidaysMoonstone SolutionsHi-LineRWSTarget Sports Centre
August 2015
It has been becoming more and more evident to me what an amazing feat it was for me to win an Olympic Quota place for London, 3 years ago this very month. And in an event that is very difficult to even train in my own country. But sometimes the harder a challenge is, the more rewarding and worth while it is! This year no GB lady pistol shooter qualified for the European Championships, close isn't quite good enough. This competition was where I won the first Olympic quota place a GB lady pistol shooter has ever done.
Now as I re-focus on my air pistol discipline, all roads for me lead to qualifying for the Air European Champs and final Olympic Quota place opportunities in March 2016. I've been seeking help from a psychologist who is really helping and I'm positive looking forwards.
National Paralympic Day has also been a focal point for me for this month, as I supported all the shooting clubs and grounds in the south of England who wanted to deliver an open day for people of all abilities over 25/26th July.
Print
July 2015
Training hard as ever but not quite hitting the scores. That sums up this month, as I came 2nd in our final trials for the European Champs. In order to be selected by British Shooting we need to attain a certain standard at specific competitions. No GB lady pistol shooter sadly qualified for the Euro's.
Aside from training I've been working hard to promote the sport in the south of England, taking shooting taster sessions to various county's Schools Games and Disability events this month. I want to demonstrate by example hardwork, dedication and commitment to achieving dreams. Always striving to do your best.
Print
June 2015
May 2015 culminated for me at the Channel Islands Open Pistol Competition, where I won three Silver Medals! There was still plenty of room for competition improvement, which has continued to fuel my enthusiasm and determination for perfection.
I stayed out in Jersey after the competition for a few extra days training, in order to make good use of the great shooting facilities. This was hugely beneficial due to the quality coaching and range facilities that the mainland UK doesn't have. This was slightly cut short as a result of the poor weather and ferry conditions. Whilst out in Jersey, I was asked to appear on BBC Radio Jersey, which was a great privilege. Jersey's sporting enthusiasm is ramping up, as the bi-annual Island Games prepare to descend on the island for the first time in 18yrs at the end of June.
The Channel Islands Open competition was a preparation event for the Games.
Print
More Articles ...
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
RIAC 2014
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
1
2
3
4
London 2012 Olympian. British Lady Pistol Shooter heading for Rio 2016 Olympics.
G4G Pursuits
Guest Speaking
Schools Mentoring Package
Performance Business Targets
Corporate Team Building/Leadership Days
MORE INFO
Please contact This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. to discuss your requirments.
Sponsor Me
Tweets by @GorgsGeikie
Website developed and maintained by
