Facebook Twitter
Home
GB Deaf Football
About this Website
About Deaf Football
Sponsorship and Fundraising
Documents
GB Men
About GB Men
GBDF Men’s Match Highlights
GB Men Euro 2015 qualifier draw
GB Men Photo Gallery
GB Women
About GB Women
GB Women Squad
GB Women Photo Gallery
GB Under 23’s
About GB U23s
GB U23s Photo Gallery
GB U23s Player Profiles
GB U23s Staff Profiles
GB Over 35’s
Deaflympics 2017
About Deaflympics
DeaflympicsGB
Men’s Deaflympics Champions
Women’s Deaflympics Champions
GBDF Men’s vs Bedfont & Feltham FC ReportFebruary 9, 2017
Great Britain Deaf Football Men v Bedfont & Feltham FCFebruary 2, 2017
GBDF Men Management team announcementDecember 7, 2016
James Milner Foundation Charity BallDecember 1, 2016
GBDF Men Team Manager first press releaseOctober 24, 2016
GBDF Men’s vs Bedfont & Feltham FC ReportFebruary 9, 2017Read More
Great Britain Deaf Football Men v Bedfont & Feltham FCFebruary 2, 2017Read More
GBDF Men Management team announcementDecember 7, 2016Read More
James Milner Foundation Charity BallDecember 1, 2016Read More
GBDF Men Team Manager first press releaseOctober 24, 2016Read More
Men
GBDF Men’s vs Bedfont & Feltham FC Report
9 Feb 2017
Great Britain Deaf Men’s gathered together for first time in training after selection from the trial in December. GBDF Men’s trained together at Brentford FC Training Ground with their new management team, Dean Humphreys (Manager), Anthony Adams (Assistant Manager), Mark Saunderson (Head Coach) and Luke Bryant (Analyst). The team trained […]
Great Britain Deaf Football Men v Bedfont & Feltham FC
2 Feb 2017
Great Britain Deaf Football Men team starts their 2017 Deaflympics Gold quest this weekend which will see the provisional squad meet up for the first time. We would like to extend our thanks to Brentford FC (who have let the team use their facilities) and to Bedfont & Feltham FC who will be […]
GBDF Men Management team announcement
7 Dec 2016
I have great pleasure in confirming the new Great Britain Deaf Football Men’s Management Team appointments. They are:   Assistant Manager – Tony Adams whom has previously worked with me to a great effect and has a wealth of football experience which we will be looking to instill into the GB team. […]
GBDF Men Team Manager first press release
24 Oct 2016
Statement by Dean Humphreys I would like to express my gratitude for the opportunity to be appointed as your new GB Men’s Team Manager. Naturally, I will genuinely enjoy taking on the new challenge to steer GB towards the podium at the 23rd Deaflympics at Samsun, Turkey 2017. Honestly, the […]
New GBDF Men appointment
30 Sep 2016
GBDF is delighted to announce a new GBDF Men team manager to lead the team in their quest for Gold at 2017 Deaflympics in Samsun, Turkey. We would like to welcome Dean Humphreys aboard as the new GBDF Men team manager. Dean has lots of experience at Deaflympics in various roles, […]
Women
James Milner Foundation Charity Ball
1 Dec 2016
After a successful Deaf World Cup tournament with GB Deaf Women’s winning the bronze medal after an intense play off against Poland, the squad had no idea that they would also grab hold of a winning Golden Ticket to grant access to Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory charity ball […]
GBDF Women indebted to sponsors and supporters
16 Aug 2016
As way of saying a big thank you to all our sponsors and supporters, we want to highlight the great work done by you, to help the GBDF Women team to prepare and participate in the 2016 Deaf  World Cup in Italy. It is a fact that we would not […]
GBDF Women win bronze at Deaf World Cup
16 Aug 2016
GBDF Women’s team showed their medal winning potential at the Deaf World Cup last month  in Italy by winning the bronze medal in a 2-0 victory against Poland in the 3rd/4th game play off. However, it is true to say that silver or gold medal was a real possibility if […]
Special edition beer for the Deaf World Cup
8 Jun 2016
Great Britain Deaf Football is pleased to announce, with Lymestone Brewery, a special edition beer ‘Stone Deaf’. It is now available to all our supporters and the wider public from Lymestone Brewery website (details below) and every bottle of the honey laced ‘Stone Deaf’ beer sold will help to raise […]
GBDF Legend Chris Gwynn received 40 year service award
18 May 2016
Chris Gwynn, the head coach of the GBDF Women’s team, received a 40 year service award from the Berks & Bucks FA for his dedication to football in particular to the Schools football. Chris was presented the award by Mike Spinks, the Chairman of ESFA (English Schools FA). In addition to […]
My Tweets
Contact us GB Deaf Football: gbdfenquiries@gmail.com
Website Sponsors – Remark! The website has been kindly funded by Remark! since 2001. Remark! are a deaf led media business based in London who are very passionate supporters of Great Britain Deaf Football.
Remark! Website: http://www.remark.uk.com/
© 2017
Designed by ThemeBoy
