MNDA | Join the ice bucket challenge today! | Jimmy Johnstone - Celtic's Greatest Ever Player
Buy DVD /
Scarf / CD
Lord Of The Wing Film Trailer
Lord of the Wing on YouTube
Charity CD Single Campaign
News Archive
Lord Of The Wing Film Reviews
Image Archive
Biography
Stats
ALS / MND Information
ALS / MND Donations
Post Your Tribute
Downloads
Related Links
Banners
Mailing List Signup
General Enquiries
Email Us
Thank you for your support
Jimmy Johnstone 1944 - 2006
Jimmy ‘Jinky’ Johnstone, Celtic's Greatest Ever Player, first iPhone and iPod Touch Application is now available.
Profits from the Application go to Agnes Johnstone, widow of the late Jimmy Johnstone.
Read more click here.
This Is London
Eusebio - Jinky asked Celtic question
18 March 2006
Portuguese legend Eusebio has revealed Jimmy Johnstone tried to talk him into signing for Celtic.
Eusebio was a friend of the Lisbon Lion, who lost his long battle with motor neurone disease on Monday and was laid to rest in an emotional funeral on Friday. Eusebio told the Scottish Sun: "Jimmy always asked me to move to Scotland - he wanted me to play for Celtic with him.
Read article...
Four Four Two
Eusebio: One-on-One
01 July 2008
Eusebio: In Tribute
The all-time legend for Portugal and Benfica (where he scored at an incredible rate of more than a goal a game over 700-plus appearances) answers questions from FourFourTwo readers in July 2008.
Read article...
Daily Mail
Lion King Casts a Long Shadow
Stephen McGowan
30 October 2006
HE was the guiding light in a Grand Old Team, a man of laughter and joy who was never content to walk alone.
So, when JimmyJohnstone made an emotional final pilgrimage to the Estadio Nacional towards the end of 2002, the absence of his fellow Lisbon Lions provoked a rare moment of circumspection.
Read article...
STV
Jimmy Johnstone Faberge egg goes under the hammer
14 February 2011
A rare Faberge egg created as a tribute to Celtic legend Jimmy Johnstone is to be auctioned to help raise funds for a new football school in Lanarkshire.
A lifelong fan of the Glasgow club is selling his prized possession and will donate some of the proceeds to the footballer's son James, who is hoping to fulfil his father's dream of training youngsters in his home community.
Read article...
Jimmy Johnstone Academy
Latest academy news at the websiteClick here
Jinky's Facebook Page!
Join Jimmy Johnstone's official fan page!Click here
Latest STV News
Scotland's 'GREATEST Team' includes JINKY
Click here
Latest JINKY News
''Lord of the Wing' World classClick for video clip
Celtic Honour Jinky
Celtic unveil Statue of legend Jimmy Johnstone Click for video clip
Tribute To Jinky
Celtic's GREATEST PlayerClick here
Post A Tribute
Record your memories and share your storiesClick here
Terms & Conditions | Privacy Statement |
Copyright © Lord Of The Wing 2008. All rights
reserved.
| Contact Webmaster
