Current technology
Current technology
jueves, 25 de febrero de 2016
Whatsapp Sim
Whatsapp is
among the most popular messaging services around the globe. Usually Wi-Fi or
any other internet connection is required to chat through Whatsapp. Sometimes
the non-availability of internet makes it difficult for the users to send
messages and share other stuff. This problem was solved by the introduction of
Whatsim.
Whatsim is
the name given to Whatsapp sim that has made the life of Whatsapp users very
much convenient than before. It allows you to send messages and share media
without any internet connected on your android or smartphone. Also it costs the
user nothing to send messages and allows the user to use the service without
any limits.
Whatsim was
created by Manuel Zanella who is also the inventor of I am watch that is a smart watch. Whatsapp sim was launched by a
company Zeromobile in Italy.
The basic idea behind it was the facilitation of
Whatsapp users as the internet connection limits its availability specially
during travelling that dissatisfies users. However internet connection is not a
problem owing to the creation of Whatsim.
Whatsapp sim
provides its users a great coverage despite the location. Nearly 400 operators
work for it and allow you to connect in around150 countries all around the world. This is not all, in
case the user changes his position, the previous provider is switched to the
better mobile for providing the users bests services without letting the user
know about it.
How you can get your Whatsapp sim? This is quiet
easy. You can buy your sim from Whatsapp website for €10 that makes around $ 12
throughout the world and you also can enjoy Whatsapp services for 1 year
without paying any extra charges and without any need of Wi-Fi or mobile data
in your android or smartphone. Also there is no limit to its use. However you have
to pay some extra charges for media sharing like pictures and videos. Whatsim
makers have announced that they will sell the sim for €5 in developing
countries to facilitate their users.
The annual paying non expiring system of
Whatsapp makes it one of the best and easiest ways of communication. Company is
also trying to make the sim and recharge available through local networks.
As it requires recharge after 1 year so Whatsapp sim
makers have cared for your convenience here too. You can buy a recharge by
simply going to Whatsim website and can pay for you 1 year recharge. This is
one quick and easy way that saves the users from many other troubles.
Earlier attempts were also done to provide limitless
Whatsapp chatting services. Whatsapp Company along With E plus (a
telecommunication company) launched a prepaid sim in Germany to provide free
Whatsapp to the users. But this service was only limited to Germany.
Whatsapp sim
is a great blessing for Whatsapp users. It allows you to chat anytime anywhere
without any restriction. You can connect to the whole world using this. It is
indeed a marvelous creation.
See more : Install WhatsApp
Publicadas por
Juan Zumarán
a la/s
08:45
No hay comentarios.:
Enviar esto por correo electrónicoBlogThis!Compartir en TwitterCompartir en FacebookCompartir en Pinterest
Página Principal
Suscribirse a:
Entradas (Atom)
Archivo del Blog
▼
2016
(1)
▼
febrero
(1)
Whatsapp Sim
Acerca de mí
Juan Zumarán
Ver mi perfil completo
Plantilla Sencillo. Con tecnología de Blogger.
