Kielder Water and Forest Park - The official visitor website | Kielder Water and Forest Park
Welcome to the greater outdoors.
Kielder Water & Forest Park brings you nature on a grander scale. The views are bigger, the night sky brighter, the sports wilder and the smiles wider. We’re home to the biggest man-made lake in Northern Europe and, at over 250 square miles, the largest working forest in England. The best way to explore Kielder is to start at one of our three visitor centres, Tower Knowe, Kielder Waterside or Kielder Castle. So what are you waiting for? Follow these directions to get here and get ready for the greater outdoors made just for you.
Inspirational place for inspirational artRead moreBRAND NEW LODGESDISCOVER MOREStick Man trailFind out more
Friends of Kielder
Book tickets
About us
FAQs
Site accessibility
Privacy
Terms
School visits
Useful links
Loading
Visit
Play
Stay
Eat
Shop
News
Events
Contact
Tower Knowe Visitor Centre
Calvert Trust Kielder
Kielder Waterside
Kielder Castle Visitor Centre
Kielder Salmon Centre
Kielder Observatory
Birds of Prey Centre
Group Learning Visits
Getting here
Know before you go
Itineraries
What else is nearby
Adventure
Cycling, Mountain Biking, Water activities, Adventure activities, Horse riding
Cycling
Mountain Biking
Water activities
Adventure activities
Horse riding
Discover
Dark skies, Sky den, Fishing, Wildlife and Nature, Ospreys, Our history
Dark skies
Sky Den
Fishing
Wildlife and nature
Ospreys at Kielder
Kielder Water Voles
Our history
Explore
Walking, Art and architecture, Ferry, Best views, Retail
Walking
Art & Architecture
Ferry
Best views
Retail
Lodges
Kielder Lodges at Kielder Waterside
Calvert Trust Lodges
Camping and caravanning
Kielder Caravan Park
Cottages and self catering
B&Bs and Hotels
Tea rooms / coffee shops
Local pubs
Restaurants
Farm shops / takeaways
Kielder Online Shop
Dark Skies Shop
Blog
Kielder Marathon
Kielder Winter Wonderland
Arts Workshops
Hosting an event
Add an event online
Contact us
Welcome to the greater outdoors.
Kielder Water & Forest Park brings you nature on a grander scale. The views are bigger, the night sky brighter, the sports wilder and the smiles wider. We’re home to the biggest man-made lake in Northern Europe and, at over 250 square miles, the largest working forest in England. The best way to explore Kielder is to start at one of our three visitor centres, Tower Knowe, Kielder Waterside or Kielder Castle. So what are you waiting for? Follow these directions to get here and get ready for the greater outdoors made just for you.
Darker SkiesFind out moreFriends of KielderBecome a friendBRAND NEW LODGESDISCOVER MOREAll creatures great and smallFind out moreStick Man trailFind out moreInspirational place for inspirational artRead more
News and blog
Loan will help expand facilities at Calvert Trust Kielder17/02/2017Read more
Kielder braces itself for the first ever winter 24 hour mountain bike race from High Fell Events25/11/2016
Tweets
@gforsterphoto thank you for sharing this stunning photo https://t.co/ ...12 Feb at 08:56RT @NorthWildlife: Your chance to try out optical equipment with exper ...11 Feb at 18:19Read more
Download a map of the Park
Download a guide of the Park
Sign-up to our e-newsletter
Download the latest edition of WHAT'S ON
Produced By Kielder Water & Forest Park Development Trust. Registered Charity Number: 1139328. Members: Northumbrian Water, Forestry Commission, Calvert Trust Kielder, Northumberland County Council And Kielder Observatory Astronomical SocietySupported by the Joicey Trust.
