Lesley Mckenna
Coaching
Lifestyle
Twitter
.
INSTAGRAM
Bio
Contact
Coaching
Lifestyle
Twitter
INSTAGRAM
Bio
Contact
Coaching
With over 20 years of involvement within multi-disipline high level sport Lesley has a attained a level of knowledge and experience that places her personal performance and her coaching skills, among the world’s best.
This platform of skills makes her highly sought after within snowsports.  She is involved in the development of the BASI snowboard coaching scheme, works with top level riders through her role’s as the Roxy Team Manager/Coach, coaches world class female riders independently and also works with the British Freestyle Snowboard Team and the British Freeski Team as performance manager.
Lesley has a first class Masters Degree in Performance coaching from Stirling University and is a BASI ISTD qualified snowboard and ski coach. She is also a snowboard and ski coach trainer.
Lesley has also coached on the Roxy snow camps which are available to the
general public – info at www.roxy.com.
“Their is no substitute for good coaching
when it comes to progressing in sport.”
Information about future Roxy Snow Camps will be published on this website and on www.roxy-europe.com
Lifestyle
With much of her time spent on the road with competitive snowboarding Lesley likes to spend some time documenting her travels and experiences both in spoken and written form. Lesley has written articles and blogs for various snowboard Magazines including Snowboard UK, Method Mag, Huck, Visitscotland.com, BA inflight magazine and Roxy.
Lesley is also available for motivational and inspirational public speaking from corporate speaking to after dinner speaking.
For more information or to book Lesley for an event contact lesley@lesleymckenna.com.
Speaking
Lesley McKenna is an informed and interesting public speaker. She has experience in a wide field or public speaking from corporate events to after dinner speaking to inspiring young people. Lesley is passionate about girls and women in sport.
She is always keen to encourage others to get involved in both sport and other areas and to strive to reach their potential in whatever field they have chosen by forming clear goals and objectives and structured time management.
Lesley is passionate about girls and women in sport.
Lesley grew up in Aviemore in the heart of the Scottish highlands and before
she was a snowboarder she was a member of the Great Britain Ski Team.
She spent 5 seasons skiing full time and was UK Ladies Giant Slalom
Ski Champion in 1994. She is lucky enough to belong to an exceptional
snowsports family, with cousins Noel and Alain Baxter being top skiers,
and to have been nurtured by the progressive sporting atmosphere of the
Spey Valley: the Spey Valley has more Olympians per head of population
than anywhere else in the UK.
This definitely helped her to overcome the many hurdles she has faced in her successful career including a complete change of sport and two very serious injuries. She pitted herself against the best UK athletes in the BBC Superstars series and proving that she is not only a world class athlete but also helping to change the media conception of snowboarders when she won the ladies competition. She hopes her experiences over the years will be both inspirational and motivational to anyone out there with a dream of what they could achieve, especially girls and women, and especially if the odds seem high.
Media
Lesley has received media coverage across a very broad spectrum of publications and platforms from being featured as a Scottish Celebrity on BBC to winning the women’s category of the BBC Superstars program.
She has been featured in women’s magazines like Cooler and Easy Living as well as having core magazine interviews in various snowboard magazines like Whitelines Snowboard Magazine, Method Mag, SUK to name a few.
She has received extensive coverage in the newspapers both broadsheet and tabloid.
Twitter
lena_stoffel’s photo instagram.com/p/fcna-6mxKb/ 1224 days ago
Amazing day, great view at the top of the Burma road @lkm1190 #frostie with snow on the hills instagram.com/p/fX-W4NzeyU/ 1226 days ago
lena_stoffel’s photo instagram.com/p/fDvwrXmxEo/ 1234 days ago
cherylmaas’s photo instagram.com/p/dME9KWsuyl/ 1281 days ago
jennyjonessnow’s photo instagram.com/p/dL585yjCGi/ 1281 days ago
INSTAGRAM
Bio
Lesley McKenna was born in Inverness in the Highlands of Scotland
and grew up in a little ski resort called Aviemore.
She is Scotland’s best know snowboarder and a triple Olympian.
She is the only snowboarder from the UK to have ever won a half pipe
World Cup event and to have led the half pipe World Cup standings.
As well as a successful competitive career,
Lesley is a pioneer of the women’s snowboard scene.
Lesley is the co-owner and director of Chunkyknit Productions, which made three highly successful and inspirational international all girl snowboard films.
To see ChunkyKnit in action click here
Lesley grew up skiing in Scotland and went on to ski to Europa cup level taking the British national Giant Slalom champion title in 1994 before taking up snowboarding. Lesley joined the European Roxy Snow team as a professional athlete in 1997, a partnership that continues to this day.
As well as filming and photo-shooting with the other Roxy girls she also coached the Junior Roxy Snow Team, running
bi-yearly performance camps and during major events providing guidance support. From 2010 until the present day Lesley has been the Team Manager/Coach for the European Roxy Snow Team, working with Olympians, TTR World Champions, X-Games medal winners and FIS World Cup winners.
When she is not on snow somewhere in the world,
Lesley can often be found enjoying the Scottish
outdoors whether surfing on the beautiful un-spoilt
beaches or mountain biking in the beautiful highland mountains.
Contact
Thank you! I have received your message.
name
email
message
lelsey@lesleymckenna.com
© 2012 Lesley Mckenna All rights reserved.
