Culture and Olympic Heritage Commission
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
skip to content
Menu
Olympic Games
Summer Olympic Games
Winter Olympic Games
Youth Olympic Games
All
Beijing 2022
Tokyo 2020
Pyeongchang 2018
Rio 2016
Sochi 2014
London 2012
Vancouver 2010
Beijing 2008
Turin 2006
Athens 2004
Salt Lake CIty 2002
Sydney 2000
Nagano 1998
Atlanta 1996
Lillehammer 1994
Barcelona 1992
Albertville 1992
Seoul 1988
Calgary 1988
Los Angeles 1984
Sarajevo 1984
Moscow 1980
Lake Placid 1980
Montreal 1976
Innsbruck 1976
Munich 1972
Sapporo 1972
Mexico 1968
Grenoble 1968
Tokyo 1964
Innsbruck 1964
Rome 1960
Squaw Valley 1960
Melbourne/
Stockholm 1956
Cortina
d'Ampezzo 1956
Helsinki 1952
Oslo 1952
London 1948
St. Moritz 1948
Berlin 1936
Garmisch-
Partenkirchen 1936
Los Angeles 1932
Lake Placid 1932
Amsterdam 1928
St. Moritz 1928
Paris 1924
Chamonix 1924
Antwerp 1920
Stockholm 1912
London 1908
St. Louis 1904
Paris 1900
Athens 1896
Lausanne 2020
Buenos Aires 2018
Lillehammer 2016
Nanjing 2014
Innsbruck 2012
Singapore 2010
prevnext
Sports
Summer Sports
Archery
Athletics
Badminton
Basketball
Beach Volleyball
Boxing
Canoe Slalom
Canoe Sprint
Cycling BMX
Cycling Mountain Bike
Cycling Road
Cycling Track
Diving
Equestrian/Dressage
Equestrian/Eventing
Equestrian/Jumping
Fencing
Football
Golf
Gymnastics Artistic
Gymnastics Rhythmic
Handball
Hockey
Judo
Modern Pentathlon
Rowing
Rugby
Sailing
Shooting
Swimming
Synchronized Swimming
Table Tennis
Taekwondo
Tennis
Trampoline
Triathlon
Volleyball
Water Polo
Weightlifting
Wrestling Freestyle
Wrestling Greco-Roman
Winter Sports
Alpine Skiing
Biathlon
Bobsleigh
Cross Country Skiing
Curling
Figure skating
Freestyle Skiing
Ice Hockey
Luge
Nordic Combined
Short Track Speed Skating
Skeleton
Ski Jumping
Snowboard
Speed skating
Athletes
Countries
Results
Photos
Videos
Watch Olympic Videos
Rio 2016
sochi 2014
london 2012
vancouver 2010
beijing 2008
turin 2006
Athens 2004
Salt Lake City 2002
Sydney 2000
Nagano 1998
Atlanta 1996
Lillehammer 1994
IOC Videos
Olympic Day
The new Olympic Channel brings you news, highlights, exclusive behind the scenes, live events and original programming, 24 hours a day, 365 days per year.
Watch the Olympic Channel Now arrow right
News
Olympic Games and YOG News
Olympic games news
beijing 2022
tokyo 2020
pyeongchang 2018
Rio 2016
sochi 2014
london 2012
YOG news
Lausanne 2020
BUENOS AIRES 2018
lillehammer 2016
nanjing 2014
innsbruck 2012
News topics
ioc news
host city elections
torch relay
olympic games legacy
sustainability
Fight against doping
Information for the Media
media resources
key events calendar
accreditations
Photos and videos
press releases
reference Documents
Latest IOC Updates on twitter
About
What we do
Celebrate
Olympic Games
From Candidate
to Host City
Sustainability
Legacy
Promote
Olympism in Society
Sport and Active Society
Women in sport
Education
Social Development
Sport for Hope
Peace through sport
Cooperation United Nations
Olympic Studies Centre
Olympic Day
Leading
the Olympic Movement
Olympic Agenda 2020
Good Governance
Ethics
Sporting regulations
National Olympic
Committees
International
Federations
Organising Committees
for the Olympic Games
Recognised
organisations
Support and protect
clean athletes
Olympic Solidarity
Career Programme
Athletes' Space
Fight against doping
Manipulation of competitions
Healthy Body Image
Harrassement
and Abuse in Sport
Who we are
The organisation
President
Members
Commissions
Sessions
Congresses
How we do it
Funding
Partners
Broadcasters
Ticketing
Licencing
Suppliers
Museum
Shop
twitter
youtube
redirect
Share
facebook
googleplus
search
search-form
The International Olympic Committee
Culture and Olympic Heritage Commission
The Culture and Olympic Heritage Commission advises the IOC Session, the IOC Executive Board and the IOC President on all the activities of the Olympic Movement that are related to culture in the broadest sense of the term - art, history, focus on values, academic research and patrimonial collections – with a view to promoting the Olympic ideals as widely as possible, especially among young people all over the world.
The responsibilities of the Culture and Olympic Heritage Commission are to:
Help to achieve optimum implementation of the IOC’s cultural action plan: activities of the Olympic Foundation for Culture and Heritage and Olympic Agenda 2020;
Facilitate synergies between the various cultural platforms, communities and bodies within the Olympic Movement: academies, museums, NOC and OCOG culture sections, research centres and universities, and recognised organisations, with a view to achieving better overall impact;
Consider ways to develop the cultural activities of the Olympic Movement in the future.
The Culture and Heritage Commission is supported by the Culture and Heritage Department.
Chair
Ching-Kuo WU
Members
Valeriy BORZOV
Ung CHANG
Iván DIBÓS
Timothy Tsun Ting FOK
Aïcha GARAD ALI
Nat INDRAPANA
The Princess Nora of LIECHTENSTEIN
Samih MOUDALLAL
Mounir SABET
Franco ASCANI
Roman BABUT
Mehrez BOUSSAYENE
Maria BULATOVA
Spyros CAPRALOS
Beatriz GARCIA
Bouchra HAJIJ
Lord HALL of BIRKENHEAD
Isidoros KOUVELOS
Admire MASENDA
Alicia MASONI DE MOREA
Norbert MÜLLER
Koji MUROFUSHI
Christiane PAQUELET
Tubby REDDY
Martin ROTH
Klaus SCHORMANN
Sylvia SWEENEY
David WALLECHINSKY
Honorary Chair
Lambis NIKOLAOU
Director in charge
Director of Culture and Heritage
The IOC has launched a series of programmes and activities, such as the World Conference on Sport, Education and Culture, that contribute to raising awareness about the importance of culture and Olympic education.
World Forum on Education, Culture and Sport
A biennial World Conference on Sport, Education and Culture is organised by the IOC and brings together representatives from the world of sport, universities, NGOs, governments and intergovernmental organisations, as well as athletes and young people, to discuss related themes and agree on joint strategies. The aim of these conferences is:
to regularly assess the progress made in the field of education, culture and sport by the Olympic Movement;
to give an opportunity to provide new knowledge on these issues by sharing experiences and expertise from different sectors of society; and
to encourage cooperation  and further development of policies in these matters.
The 7th World Conference on Sport, Education and Culture took place in Durban, South Africa, in December 2010 under the motto “Giving a Voice to Youth”, and concluded with a set of final recommendations which were agreed upon by the more-than 600 delegates.
IOC contests
Olympic Sport and Art Contest
The Olympic Sport and Art Contest was re-launched in 2000 to enable each NOC to further develop an active synergy between the worlds of art and sport, both nationally and regionally.
By holding this competition every four years, the IOC resumed one of its strongest traditions, established by the reviver of the Olympic Games, Baron Pierre de Coubertin: the desire to link culture and sport. In the early years of the modern Olympic Games, medals were awarded to the winners of art, literature and music contests.
The contest is open to artists from countries with a recognised NOC and has both a graphic works and a sculpture category. A cash prize as well as a trophy is awarded to each of the three winning artists in both categories.
The theme of the 2012 edition for all works of art was “Sport and the Olympic Values of Excellence, Friendship and Respect”. For this edition, all the winning works in the national phase were exhibited at the House of International Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland. For the international phase, after selection by the international jury, the works of the three medal-winners and five diploma-winners in each category were exhibited at the Guildhall Art Gallery in London.
Click here for general information and the rules
Click here to download the full brochure of all the wining artworks.
Olympic Sport and Literature Contest
Ever since its creation, the IOC has advocated the linking of sport and culture. In 2001 it created the Sport and Literature Contest to strengthen the relationship between literature and the celebration of the Olympic Games.
Open to all NOCs, this competition recognises the best works on the Olympic spirit or Olympic values in the two youth age categories.
To appreciate the spirit of each text and respect the universality of Olympism, the winners in each category are chosen by national juries, in the language of each country and region. The winning works are published in a multilingual brochure aimed at arousing the curiosity of young people as they discover that other youngsters of their age share the same aspirations and ideals.
Sport and Photography Contest
The association of sport with art and culture is at the heart of the philosophy of the Olympic Movement, and is one of the IOC’s priorities. In this framework, the IOC organises the Sport and Photography Contest. The competition is open to amateur photographers only, and NOCs are encouraged to participate in the competition by organising a national competition in any or all of the three categories and subsequently entering their winning works in the IOC competition. Sport and Singing Contest
In keeping with the tradition of the early Olympic Games, where art and music competitions were organised, the IOC Culture and Olympic Education Commission has already set up art, literature and photography competitions. With the Sport and Singing Contest, the Commission hopes to encourage all NOCs to restore an active synergy between the worlds of music and sport at national and international level and to heighten the perception of the link between the two.
The Contest is open to performers who are nationals of countries with a recognised NOC. There is no age limit for participants, and the basic theme is “Sport and Olympism”. The Contest takes place in two phases: a national phase and international phase, the latter under the responsibility of the IOC Commission. Three winning performances and five runners-up are selected by the IOC jury. In addition, the performers of the first prize-winning song are invited to the Olympic Games.
International Olympic Academy (IOA)
In 1927, Pierre de Coubertin and his friend Ioannis Chrysafis, Head of the Department of Physical Education at Athens University, agreed to set up a centre to study the Olympic Movement and its evolution.
For its part, the Hellenic Olympic Committee (HOC) wanted to create a study centre styled on the Ancient Greek gymnasium.
Their objectives were the same, but it was not possible to implement the project until 1961, through the determination of Jean Ketseas, the HOC Secretary, and Carl Diem, a colleague of Coubertin's.
Evolution
From 1961 to 1969, the IOA's activity consisted of an annual Session, during which the participants worked and stayed in tents. The Academy today offers two conference halls, one with 450 seats equipped with the latest technology, a library, rooms (for 250 people), sports equipment, a restaurant and administrative buildings. The IOA is subsidised for the most part (approximately two-thirds) by the Greek government, with the remaining third provided by Olympic Solidarity.
IOA Terms of Reference
Create an international cultural centre at Olympia,
Safeguard and spread the Olympic spirit,
Study and implement the educational and social principles of Olympism.
Its activities include:
Annual international sessions, open to one young man and one young woman per NOC,
An international postgraduate Olympic studies programme,
International sessions for educators and directors of higher institutes of physical education, directors of national Olympic academies and sports journalists,
Special sessions for organisations affiliated to the Olympic Movement (NOCs, International Federations and associations of coaches, referees and sports leaders),
Special sessions for institutions indirectly linked with Olympism, whose goal is to promote the Olympic values,
Conferences on sports science
Visits from researchers on Olympic subjects
The main educational work of the IOA is carried out through the sessions it holds every year in Olympia. The sessions are broken down into five basic categories: (1) Session for Young Participants, (2) Session for Educators, (3) Session for Officials of National Olympic Committees and National Olympic Academies, (4) Seminar for Sports Journalists and (5) the Olympic Studies Seminar for Postgraduate Students.
Learn more about the IOA
Cooperation with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO)
In January 2004 the IOC signed a new cooperation agreement with UNESCO, in order to strengthen the cooperation that they had established in 1984 and to join efforts and cooperate to ensure close complementarity between the Olympic ideals and the objectives of UNESCO in the areas of physical education and sport.
Under this agreement, UNESCO and the IOC undertake to cooperate in activities of common interest in the areas of physical education and sport, in particular through the joint organisation of meetings and seminars.
In addition, they endeavour to encourage the development of physical education and sport, as well as the implementation of the relevant clauses of the International Charter for Physical Education and Sport and the Olympic Charter.
Learn more about UNESCO
The International Committee for Fair Play
The International Committee for Fair Play (CIFP), established in 1963, aims to promote the practice of fair play principles, which are essential to sport.
Learn more about the CIFP
Various activities contribute to raising awareness about the importance of culture and Olympic education.
Accessible projects
The IOC supports various activities in order to develop the link between sport and culture in all its forms, encourages cultural exchange and promotes the diversity of cultures.
The Olympic Museum is a living testimony of the interaction between these two worlds.
Olympic Museum
Sport, art and culture are the traditional pillars of Olympsim, and The Museum gives concrete form to this trinity.
The mission of The Olympic Museum is to make visitors aware of the breadth and the importance of the Olympic Movement; to show them by means of images and symbols that Olympism is not merely a matter of sports competition, but rather a philosophy of life whose roots are deeply embedded in our history.
With this in mind, The Olympic Museum reserves a special place for its young visitors. Special programmes encouraging the discovery of Olympism and the Games are organised to meet the expectations of children, adolescents, schools or other groups of young people. These include themed tours of both permanent and temporary exhibitions, discovery activities, educational materials and more.
The Museum is a centre for for study that bears witness to the Olympic Games and their role in modern society. In addition, it is the universal home of the written, visual and graphic memory of the Olympic Games.
Cooperation with Olympic Solidarity
Olympic Solidarity promotes culture and education by encouraging NOCs and their National Olympic Academy (NOA) to be actively involved in this field by creating, organising and publicising related programmes and initiatives.
It contributes to the IOC activities implemented via the Department of International Cooperation and Development by financially helping certain NOCs wishing to send delegates to the IOC World Forum on Education, Culture and Sport. It also assists NOCs with the organisational costs at a national level of participating in the Olympic Sport and Literature contest and the Olympic Art and Sport contest.
The programme also helps NOCs to set up and carry out individual initiatives on a national basis, by means of programmes and/or specific activities such as the creation of NOAs, establishment of Olympic education programmes in schools and universities, assistance for exhibitions or other cultural activities linked to sport.
Learn more about the Olympic Solidarity Culture and Education programme
Cooperation with the International Pierre de Coubertin Committee (IPCC)
The aim of the International Pierre de Coubertin Committee (IPCC) is to make known as widely as possible the work of the reviver of the Olympic Games and perpetuate his memory all over the world. The IPCC is an association composed of people who wish to pursue this aim and who have themselves often contributed directly to doing so through their writings or actions within the Olympic Movement, either nationally or internationally./p>
The IPCC and its members thus contributed to the publication of a Coubertin bibliography in 1991, and of his main texts (three volumes in French published in 1986), with translations in English (published in 2000) and Spanish (2006).
The IPCC was founded on 19 January 1975 in Lausanne, and was recognised by the IOC in 1978. Its first Chairman was the Swiss doctor, Paul Martin, Olympic 800m silver medallist at the 1924 Games in Paris. Geoffroy de Navacelle de Coubertin, a great-nephew of Pierre de Coubertin, succeeded him and headed the IPCC for more than 12 years. The current IPCC Chairman is the German professor Norbert Muller, a leading specialist on Coubertin's work.
The IPCC recognises the national Pierre de Coubertin committees which pursue the same aims at national level. The oldest one is the French Pierre de Coubertin Committee (founded in 1960), while the most recent is the Mauritius Pierre de Coubertin Committee (founded in 2005).
The IPCC regularly organises:
Scientific congresses, including the one entitled "The Relevance of Pierre de Coubertin Today", held in Lausanne in 1986, and "Coubertin and Olympism: questions for the future", held in 1997 to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of the Olympic Congress in Le Havre;
Exhibitions, such as "Coubertin and the Greek Miracle" presented in Athens during the summer of 2004 or the mobile exhibition "The life and work of Pierre de Coubertin", which is available in six languages;
Youth forums, which bring together for a week at a time classes from Pierre de Coubertin schools around the world, held in Le Havre (FRA) in 1997, Much Wenlock (GBR) in 1999, Lausanne (SUI) in 2001, Genoa (ITA) in 2003, and Radstadt (AUT) in 2005; and
Coubertin days as part of the youth camps held during the Olympic Summer Games, notably in Atlanta, in 1996, Sydney, in 2000, and Athens, in 2004.
Learn more about the International Pierre de Coubertin Committee
The Olympic Games are a tremendous opportunity to promote culture and Olympic education.
Cultural Olympiads
In accordance with the Olympic Charter, Organising Committees for the Olympic Games (OCOGs) organise a programme of cultural events that serve to promote harmonious relations, mutual understanding and friendship among the participants and others attending the Olympic Games. It also includes events in the Olympic Village, symbolising the universality and diversity of human culture as well as events in the host city.
The cultural programmes become veritable cultural Olympiads with events that span the different arts over the four years leading to the Games to culminate during the Games themselves.
In addition, the IOC supports OCOGs for the promotion of their education programmes that are implemented during the four years leading up to the Games.
Olympic Youth Camp
An OCOG with the authorisation of the IOC Executive Board, may, under its own responsibility, organise an international youth camp on the occasion of the Olympic Games.
From a historical perspective, the Youth Camp tradition was born at the 1912 Olympic Games in Stockholm, when King Gustav V invited 1,500 boy scouts to set up their tents near the Olympic Stadium, primarily to assist in the organisation and conduct of the Games.
These camps, supported by international organisations dealing with education and youth (UNICEF, UNESCO, etc) and Olympic Movement institutions such as the International Pierre de Coubertin Committee, espoused similar objectives: educate young people through sport; promote cultural exchanges and foster international cooperation; share the Olympic spirit; develop in young people an understanding of, and respect for, different cultures; and promote knowledge and understanding of the historical, geographical and cultural background of the host city and country.
The youngsters who take part in these camps can attend the Olympic Games opening ceremony as well as selected cultural events and sporting events. They also take part in workshops with Olympic themes (eg dance, drama, art) as well as in discussions on Olympic issues. This experience provides the participants with a sense of empowerment, a global network, life long friendships and an increased overall understanding of the Olympic Movement.
Olympiart
Olympiart is a symbolic award that serves to remind the Olympic Movement of the place art has in its midst. Painting, architecture and music have been honoured, with recipients including of Hans Erni, Pedro Ramirez Vázquez and Mikis Theodorakis - all prestigious artists who have a strong interest in sport, peace and youth.
The Olympic Games as a platform for comprehensive programmes
The Olympic Games play a central role to implement Olympic education programmes for a wide range of youngsters – be it through activities on a national level or through initiatives by OCOGs of past and future host cities. In China, the biggest Olympic education programme in history was implemented in his country in the run-up to the Beijing Games.
Some 400 million children from more than 400,000 elementary and secondary schools benefitted from Olympic education, which was integrated into the regular school curriculum. The set-up of an Olympic Education System in China is one important legacy from the Games.
Mission
arrow
Composition
arrow
Advocacy
arrow
Support
arrow
Games
arrow
What we do
Mission
Olympic Agenda 2020
Promote Olympism
Celebrate olympic games
Leading the Olympic Movement
Support and protect clean athletes
Who we are
The Organisation
Members
Commissions
Athletes' Commission
Athletes' Entourage Commission
Audit Committee
Communications Commission
Coordination Commissions
Culture and Olympic Heritage Commission
Delegate Members
Ethics
Evaluation Commission
Finance Commission
IOC Executive Board
IOC Members Election Commission
IOC Representatives on the WADA Executive Committee and Foundation Board
Legal Affairs
Marketing Commission
Medical and Scientific Commission
Olympic Broadcasting Services - Boards of Directors
Olympic Channel
Olympic Channel Services
Olympic Education Commission
Olympic Programme Commission
Olympic Solidarity Commission
Public Affairs and Social Development Through Sport
Sport and Active Society
Sustainability And Legacy Commission
Women In Sport Commission
Sessions
129th IOC Session
128th IOC Session
127th IOC Session
126th IOC Session
125th IOC Session
Congresses
XIII Olympic Congress - Copenhagen 2009
XII Olympic Congress - Paris 1994
XI Olympic Congress - Baden-Baden 1981
X Olympic Congress - Varna 1973
VIII Olympic Congress - Prague 1925
IX Olympic Congress - Berlin 1930
VII Olympic Congress - Lausanne 1921
VI Olympic Congress - Paris 1914
V Olympic Congress - Lausanne 1913
IV Olympic Congress - Paris 1906
III Olympic Congress - Brussels 1905
II Olympic Congress - Le Havre 1897
I Olympic Congress - Paris 1894
How we do it
Funding
Sponsors
Introduction
100 Years of Olympic Marketing
Local Sponsorship Programmes
Broadcasters
Other programmes
Ticketing
Licensing
Philatelic and Numismatic programmes
Suppliers
IOC News
Go to IOC News →
IOC News
Olympians discuss entourage and dual career
27 Nov 2012
IOC News
IOC World Conference kicks off in Amsterdam
26 Nov 2012
IOC News
Amsterdam to host debate on sport, culture and education
20 Nov 2012
More
<12>
back to top
Share.Popup.Title
Fr
Olympic Games
all olympic games
summer olympics
winter olympics
Youth Olympic Games
results
Media
Media resources
latest news
key events calendar
Publications
documents
faq
behind the games
torch relay
mascots
olympic medals
ancient games
Programmes
olympic solidarity
sport and active society
women in sport
Sport for Hope
olympic legacy
The IOC
The Organisation
Olympic agenda 2020
Sponsors
Jobs at the IOC
Olympic Studies Centre
sign form
Sign up for our newsletter
© Copyright 2017. All rights reserved
Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
