BBC Sport - Boxing goes hand in glove with Mary Kom
British Broadcasting CorporationHome
Accessibility links
Skip to content Skip to local navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help
BBC Sport
wod
IN ASSOCIATION WITH
Football
Olympics
Vancouver 2010
Beijing 2008
A-Z of Sports
Related BBC sites
News
Weather
Sport Relief
Page last updated at 17:11 GMT, Wednesday, 8 September 2010 18:11 UK
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
MC Mary Kom boxes clever
Profile
Hand in glove
Expert view
Latest news
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Advertisement
MC Mary Kom, India's four-time women's world boxing champion, returns to her home town of Manipur.
By Sanjoy Majumder
BBC News, Delhi
A diminutive woman, no more than five feet tall, feints and sways away from a punch.Then, dancing around the boxing ring, her left hook slams into her much larger opponent, making her rival wince in pain. A gong sounds, the referee strides forward and lifts her arm and the crowd explodes. This is the woman India calls "Magnificent Mary" - MC Mary Kom - mother of two young twins and four-time world boxing champion. She's preparing for the Women's World Boxing Championships in Barbados, where she is hoping to win a fifth title, but her long-term goal is the London Olympics in 2012. "When I was small, I was very interested in fighting - karate, kung fu and boxing. I used to always watch action movies, all the Jackie Chan movies," she says breaking into peals of laughter. Her halting English and infectious smile only adds to her charm and in a country where her sport is not that well-known, she's become quite a star. But to get a true picture of her status, you need to travel all the way to India's north-east and her home state of Manipur, right beside the border with Burma. She grew up in the countryside amidst lush green paddy fields with mountains swelling in the distance. Her parents still work in the fields, as she once did.
The fields where Mary Kom once worked
It was a tough upbringing in a state hit by a violent insurgency. Even our presence brought soldiers out from the neighbouring army base. Inside the family home, one she visits only occasionally, the neighbours have dropped in as well as Mary Kom boils water to make some tea. "She never told us she'd taken up boxing," her father Tonpa tells me. "We only found out when we read in the papers of her success in a local competition. In fact, I didn't really want to encourage her to become a sportsperson because I thought it would cost a lot of money, more than we could afford." Crowd-pullerMary's success has made quite a difference to her parents' economic circumstances. "She supports the family now," Tonpa says. But it's not just her family that's proud of her. During a visit to her primary school, the Loktak Christian Mission School, she's immediately mobbed by the students who crowd around her clamouring for her autograph. The school's run by the local church and its modest grounds are where she first made her mark as an extraordinary athlete. "She used to run up and down the dirt track outside the school because we didn't have a proper running track," says one of her teachers, Surchandra Singh. "She used to be so fast, like the wind," he says grinning.
Autograph hunter at Loktak Christian Mission School
Now she's an inspiration not just in her village but the entire state. At a crumbling indoor stadium in Imphal, the Manipuri capital, 60 boys and girls trade punches under the watchful eye of their coach, Ibomcha Singh, who looks like a cross between a Zen master and Mike Tyson. This is also where Mary Kom first began boxing 10 years ago and under the same coach. He laughs as he recalls how she came up to him one afternoon and asked to join his training sessions. "I said 'no' - you are a girl and besides you are so small and thin. Then she started crying. After giving it some thought, I took her in." Honour boards line the stadium walls and one name leaps out: MC Mary Kom, World Champion. This modest training ground has now become India's boxing nursery and many hope to follow in her footsteps. A ripple runs through the group as Mary Kom walks in clad in a t-shirt, sweat pants and trainers. A warm-up session begins followed by an intense sparring session with the coach. "Gold at London 2012, that's what I want," she says afterwards, breathing heavily as she wipes the sweat of her face. "After that I can retire," she says, breaking once again into that infectious laugh. Despite her good humour, the pressure on her is intense. After all she carries the hopes not just of her Manipuri community but a country of one billion people.
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
E-mail this to a friend
Printable version
Print Sponsor
LATEST WORLD OLYMPIC DREAMS STORIES
World Olympic Dreams
Boxing skirts dispute rumbles on
Fighting for the right to fight
Bolt wants four golds
Afghan fighter seals London 2012 berth
Please select...
Afghanistan
Australia
Belgium
Brazil
China
France
Gaza
GB: Basketball
GB: Swimming
GB: Triathlon
Germany
India: Boxing
India: Shooting
Iraq
Jamaica
Kenya
Kosovo
Mongolia
Namibia
Pakistan
Russia
S.Korea
Trinidad
Ukraine
USA
Vietnam
see also
Shock defeat for Kom at boxing event
01 Dec 11 |
World Olympic Dreams
Mary Kom wins fifth world title
18 Sep 10 |
World Olympic Dreams
'Magnificent Mary' aims for London knock-out
26 Jul 10 |
World Olympic Dreams
Women in boxing over the years
28 Jul 10 |
World Olympic Dreams
related internet links:
Official MC Mary Kom site
2010 World Women's Boxing Championships
International Boxing Association
Indian Boxing Federation
Indian Olympic Association
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
Daily and weekly e-mails
Mobiles
Desktop Tools
News feeds
Interactive TV
Podcasts
A-Z of Sports
American Football
Archery
Athletics
Badminton
Baseball
Basketball
Bowls
Boxing
Canoeing
Cricket
Cycling
Darts
Disability sport
Diving
Equestrian
Fencing
Football
Formula 1
Gaelic Games
Golf
Gymnastics
Handball
Hockey
Horse Racing
Ice Hockey
Judo
Modern Pentathlon
MotoGP
Motorsport
Netball
Rowing
Rugby League
Rugby Union
Sailing
Shooting
Snooker
Squash
Swimming
Table Tennis
Taekwondo
Tennis
Triathlon
Volleyball
Weightlifting
Winter Sports
Wrestling
BBC iDSign in
Search term:
BBC navigation
News Sport Weather
Capital
TV Radio More…
CBBC CBeebies Make It Digital Food iWonder
Bitesize Music Earth Arts Taster
Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales
BBC links
Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC
Advertise With Us Privacy Accessibility Help
Ad Choices Cookies
Contact the BBC
Parental Guidance
Copyright © 2016 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
