Barton and Tredworth: a community heritage
Skip to content | Privacy and cookies
Recording and Celebrating Barton and Tredworth’s past and present
Browse the site
About us
Living in Barton and Tredworth
Buildings and Places
Working in Barton and Tredworth
Barton and Tredworth Events
Get Involved
Contact us
Message Board
Key Stage 2 Resources
Contribute
User name:
Password:
Forgot password?
Welcome!
Welcome to the Barton and Tredworth website!Here, people connected with the area can share their memories about life and work in this unique part of Gloucester.  You can read and listen to other people's stories, see their photographs and videos, and share your own material too.Woven together, these stories make up a distinctive shared inheritance.  Don't forget that yesterday is history.  Thus this site isn't only about what happened in Barton and Tredworth many years ago.  It's also about what's happening now.  It'd be really interesting to hear about a day in your life, if you'd like to share your experiences with us.If you enjoy browsing this site and have a bit of free time, would you be interested in helping to develop and edit it?  The editing program is really easy to use, and full training will be given.  Without committing yourself to anything, if you would be interested in knowing more please contact us.We are also keen to ensure that the content of this site reflects what you wish to see on it.  Thus, if you have ideas about themes that you would like the site to explore, please do get in touch with your suggestions.Please note that the views expressed on this website are those of the article authors and interviewees, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the site editors.BackgroundThis site was created as part of Hidden Lives, a Heritage Lottery funded partnership project between the Gloucester Theatre Company, Gloucestershire Archives, and the University of Gloucestershire.  The project aimed to celebrate Barton and Tredworth and its inhabitants in a variety of creative ways, including creating reminiscence theatre and digital stories from individual memories. Perhaps you'd like to create your own digital story?  You can find an easy to follow tutorial on how to do this here.
See what's new
The latest pages from this site
Barton and Tredworth
The Labour Club
Brook Bond Tea Co.
Fancy Dress
Tredworth Road
Tredworth Road Infants School 1906
Tredworth Environs
My life in Tredworth
Dorothy and Pete Evans
Coming to Gloucester and joining the congregation of St James
More new pages...
The latest comments from this site
Sheila Long, Olive Drew, and Pat Robinson
Memories and Songs of Wartime Tredworth
In the photo the two elderly people standing on left are Mr Arthur Gotham...
Sparkes' Bakery in World War 2
Phil Sparkes passes on his aunt's memories of how his uncle Ken became a baker
Just a little bit of history - I was asking my 96 yr old Nan about her wedding...
John Thornell
Attending films at The Picturedrome in the 1930s
I
livedeiniVictoriaiStreetetasaa KidigrowingnupupI remembereeveryrSaturday...
More new comments...
First visit?
Discover more about life in Barton and Tredworth
Highlights
A collection of diverse stories in celebration of Black History Month
Hidden Lives Reminiscence Theatre
See filmed excerpts of the successful performances
Second World War
Memories of Barton and Tredworth 1939-1945
Barton and Tredworth > http://www.bartonandtredworth.org.uk/
About us
Sitemap
Accessibility
Privacy
Terms of use
Designed and built by Community Sites
