TODAY HOME
HOMEVILLAGE HALLGARDEN ASSOCIATIONVILLAGE VOICEVALE OF BELVOIR LIONSLOCAL HISTORYCONTACT US
BOTTESFORD TODAY
NEWS
OUR COMMUNITY
Many people reading this will value the community we have here in Bottesford. As a village we are small enough to make it feel like a close and friendly place to live, and there are lots of activities going on for its size, for all age groups. A community such as our requires people to give as well as take to enable it to succeed, and the number of people who volunteer their time to support local organisations is key to this success. Many groups in the Village need our support, and just 1 or 2 hours a month can make a huge difference to these organisations and therefore OUR community. Examples of where YOUR help is needed include:- The Scouts - Scout leaders and helpers are needed to enable our scout groups to continue. The Youth Club - Needs committee members and/or helpers who will give 1 or 2 hours a month to support the running and development of the club. The Village Hall - Did you know that our Village Hall is nothing to do with the local council. It is a Charity set up by the people of the Village to provide a Village Hall. This charity needs more committee members to help develop the building for the next generation….more If you can help one of these organisations then either contact them direct or use our contact form and it will be forwarded to them.
Cakes, Cuppa, and Chat!
Fed up with the weather?, unable to get to meet people?The grey days and the cold make this time of year seem to drag.You may be living on your own, or just want to get out to meet people, old friends and acquaintances. Whatever the reason, come down to the Fuller Rooms on Sunday 12th February and join us.
Bottesford Scouts to Cease?
CAN YOU HELPBottesford Scouts need's new leaders. There is a real chance that scouts will have to close at Easter if no one comes forward to take over. If you would like to help this really important community service please contact me for further info. Please share this.Simon on 842189 or email
Bottesford Neighbourhood Plan
Bottesford Parish is a community of 3587 (2011 census) residents, at the Northern tip of Leicestershire. There are four villages which make up our parish: Bottesford, Easthorpe, Muston and Normanton.The parish has a rich heritage and maintains many of the rural qualities that residents find so attractive and peaceful to live within. The parish is also innovative and forward-looking.Hence the importance of the Neighbourhood Plan. This is a community-led initiative which will shape the way our four villages will look over the next 25 years. The Neighbourhood Plan is being developed by a team of volunteers who are consulting widely with as many residents, businesses and groups as possible.They need to know what you want from our community – particularly with regard to where new housing and other buildings should be located. So please get involved. This web-site will provide you with all the details, and keep you fully informed with progress.We look forward to working with you.Bottesford Neighbourhood Plan Communications Team. WEBSITE LINK
………….
LATEST NEWS
LOCAL LINKS
Village Hall
Neighbourhood Watch
Vale of Belvoir Lions
Bottesford History
Village Voice
Vale Rotary
Parish Council
DOWNLOADS
Village Guide
Mothers Union 2015
© 2015 Bottesford Today - Photo by kind permission of Phil Salathiel
