Brightwell-cum-Sotwell,Home
Home
Latest News
History
Community Life
Visitors Page
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Welcome to Brightwell-cum-Sotwell...
Follow this link for the BCS Parish Plan files/bcs_clpp.pdf
Tell us what's on your mind at http://brightwellcumsotwell.blogspot.com/
MACKNEY LANE PLANS - YOUR CHANC...
March 3rd deadline for comments on plans for four houses opposite rec on Mackney Lane																	... more
NEW TODDLER GROUP
This Thursday, 23rd February, sees first meeting of new toddler playgroup in the village hall. 							... more
BREXIT MEETING ON THURSDAY
Lord Bradshaw to hold meeting in Wallingford																											 more
You may be an outsider, wanting to know more about the village with the weirdest name in South Oxfordshire, or you may be a resident. In either case, we hope you will find something here to interest you.
Brightwell-cum-Sotwell is a village of picture postcard prettiness. Nestling in a hollow below Wittenham Clumps, it has at its heart the CAMRA award-winning Red Lion pub. Dotted along the narrow streets are picturesque black and white thatched cottages. There is a school and pre-school, four churches, and a village hall which houses a thriving volunteer-run village shop. The parish stretches to the edge of Wallingford, but the village values its separate identity.
In estate agents' jargon, this is a sought after village, but it is much more than a pretty face. People have lived and worked here for over a thousand years. Where our forebears tilled the land, we are now more likely to toil over computers. However, farming still has an important part to play in shaping the landscape, and we remain firmly in touch with our rural roots.
This is an area that has attracted artists, musicians, scientists and visionaries. Visitors come from all over the world to Mount Vernon, home of the celebrated Bach Flower Remedies. Wild flowers grown in the garden of Mount Vernon are still used to make the mother tincture of these homeopathic treatments, and their creator, Dr Edward Bach, is buried in St James's churchyard in Sotwell.Thanks to Keith Brooks for the photos of Wassailing 2017. Feel free to send us your pictures, news and dates for the calendar. If you would like to advertise or create a web page for your organisation, we would also love to hear from you. Just click on the Contact link at the top, or get involved through the blog and Facebook pages.
Powered by webboutiques.co.uk web design company Oxford
© Copyright
Brightwell-cum-Sotwell.
Our website makes use of non-invasive (no personal data) cookies to provide you with an enhanced user experience. By continuing to use the site, you consent to this.Close More
The UK Law now requires us to get consent from you for the use of cookies. A cookie is a small file containing text and numbers generated by the website and passed from your browser back to our website when you revisit the site. A cookie is used here to allow you to navigate the site, log in etc. Without this cookie (called a session cookie), this site would not work properly and so this has already been set.
We use an animation based rotating image which uses a cookie to know which image was last displayed so that as you move from page to page you are not seeing the same image every time.
We can also make use of third party services such as video clip players which can set cookies, for example to enable them to know that you part played a video clip previously, or to store customised settings such as brightness or volume. Close
sitemap
