British Georgian Society - Home
British Georgian Society
HomeAbout BGSEventsFilmsGalleryBooksLinksMembershipContact Us
Two nations spanning Europe
British Georgian Society (BGS) aims to bring closer together people in Great Britain and Georgia and develop greater understanding by providing a platform for events in interesting venues on a wide range of Georgia-related subjects such as art, film, music, culture, archaeology, history and contemporary events. Since it started in 2004, BGS has established very firm links with the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Georgian Embassy in the UK and has strong connections in the diplomatic, cultural and business fields.If you are interested in finding out more about one of the World's most fascinating and beautiful countries, full of ancient wonder and contemporary contradictions, famous as the cradle of wine and the home of the Golden Fleece, please join BGS and come to one of our events.
Latest News
Anthony Bryer OBE
An obituary by Bruce Clark
PROFESSOR ANTHONY BRYER, who has died aged 78, was an exuberant, charismatic historian and lecturer who did more than anybody in his generation to stimulate the study of Byzantium in Britain and beyond.
Read more ...
Anthony Bryer OBE
A short appreciation by Professor Judith Herrin
Anthony Bryer OBE, the wonderful, inspiring teacher and promoter of Byzantine, Greek and Turkish culture, died at his home in Birmingham on 22 October, 2016. He established the field of Byzantine Studies in the UK and embodied its international significance through his work on the region of Trebizond/Trabzon in eastern Turkey.
Read more ...
view all news
Forthcoming Events
Georgia On Two Wheels - illustrated talk by Steve Gregson 25 January 2017
'The First Georgian Republic 1918-21’ talk by Eric Lee 22 February 2017
Sacred Spaces "An extremely illustrated talk with Tony Anderson and John Ingham" 6 March 2017
Embassy Screenings
BGS Film Screenings at the Embassy
Film Festivals - Life Through Cinema
3rd London BGS Georgian Film Festival 2013
BGS Georgian Film Festival 2010
BGS Georgian Film Festival 2005
Past Events
2016 Annual General Meeting Wednesday 6th December 6.30pm
Annual BGS Rustaveli Day 2016: Shakespeare and Rustaveli Meet in London 28 November
Developing University Careers Services in Georgia 15 September 2016
Site Content ©2017 British Georgian Society.   All rights reserved.   Site design & hosting by Evolution Computing.
