CAMPACC: Campaign Against Criminalising Communities - Home
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
CAMPACC: Campaign Against Criminalising Communities
Navigation
1: Home
2: About Campacc
2.1: Aims and objectives
2.2: Statements about anti-terror laws
2.2.1: CAMPACC statement: Anti-terrorism laws: unjust powers serving the politics of fear (2008)
2.2.2: CAMPACC statement: Creating Terrorist Suspects (2005)
2.2.3: CAMPACC statement: The "war on terror" at home: We're all targets of the state (2003)
3: News & events
4: Campaigns
4.1: Campaigning on legislation
4.1.2: Oppose the Counter Terrorism Act 2008
4.2: Terror bans
4.2.1: 'Terrorist lists' seminar series 2009
4.2.2: 'Terrorist lists' seminar series 2008
4.2.3: 'Terrorist' lists project with Statewatch
4.2.4: Communities targeted for harassment and prosecutions
4.2.5: Charities accounts frozen or denied
4.3: Detainees and control orders
4.3.5: Letters from detainees
4.4: Everyday harassment
4.5: Torture & rendition
4.6: Right to protest & free expression
4.7: CAMPACC conferences
4.8: Self-determination
5: Resources
5.1: Legislation, rulings & CAMPACC responses
5.1.4: Proscribed groups
5.2: Publications & campaign materials to buy
5.2.1: CAMPACC t-shirts
5.2.2: Taxi To The Darkside
5.2.3: Big Brother
5.2.4: A Permanent State of Terror?
5.2.5: Listen to the Refugee's Story
5.3: CAMPACC statements, press releases...
5.4: CAMPACC articles, reports...
5.5: Useful articles
5.6: Film & audio
6: You can help
6.1: Become a supporter
6.2: Volunteer
6.3: Donate
6.4: Sign up for emails
7: Links
8: Contact us
10: Together Against Prevent
We work with:
Network for Police MonitoringA campaign calling for the kettling of police powers
CASE - the Coalition Against Secret EvidenceIn Feb 2009 CAMPACC, in coalition with other individuals and organisations, set up CASE to campaign for an end to the use of secret evidence in British courts, the restoration of everyone's right to know the reason why they are detained and an end to a system based on secrecy and unfairness.
CAGE
Haldane Society of Socialist Lawyers
Institute for Race Relations
Justice
Liberty
National Guantanamo Coalition
No2id
Reprieve
Statewatch
For more organisations supported by or working with CAMPACC see links
Sign the Petition
Britain was involved in the CIA’s torture programme, and some of our politicians knew about it. ACT NOW with Reprieve - Please can you write to your MP and ask them to attend the debate on torture and make sure the right questions get asked? Read more and send a letter here.
Stop the Criminalisation of the Kurdish Movement: 3 Kurds are currently being prosecuted by the Belgian courts. They spoke out for
the Kurdish cause and promoted Kurdish culture. At the behest of the
Turkish state innocent people are criminalised in Belgium for alleged
involvement in terrorist activities. Read more and sign here.
Sign our petition NOW to tell Brazilian authorities to #KeepitOn during the Rio Olympics: Internet shutdowns -- including "jamming" or blocking the mobile internet -- harm human rights, block emergency services, and stifle the economy. . Read more and sign here.
Events
Subversion, sabotage and spying: Political policing and state racism in the UK - 2 day conference in London, 17 & 18 April 2016. Co-organised by the CCJS and The Monitoring Group
Films
Everyday Borders (dir. Orson Nava) examines the impact of the 2014 immigration act on British society, exploring the way the 'Border' is increasingly entering into everyday life. The film is available on Vimeo from May 1st 2015.
Noam Chomsky (2014):
Why you can not have a Capitalist Democracy!
Articles & resources
CAMPACC has produced 5 new briefings, available to download (pdf format):
Somali communities targeted by UK 'counter-terror' measures:
the need for solidarity
Baluchistan under state terror: The UK ban on the Baluchistan Liberation Army
Euskal Herria: The struggle for independence in the Basque Country and the impact of ‘terrorist’bans
The UK ban on the PKK: Persecuting the Kurds
The Tamils of Sri Lanka - oppressed at home and persecuted in the UK
CAMPACC statement: UK anti-terror regime:
creating hatred of Muslims as a suspect community
NUJ Ethix Council Guidelines on reporting terrorism
The NUJ’s Ethics Council has produced a set of guidelines to help journalists grappling with the problems of reporting police raids on ‘terrorist suspects’.
Opposing the UK 'Terrorist' List: Persistence as Resistance CAMPACC paper, February 2009 (pdf file)
Read papers and reports from a series of seminars on "Terrorist lists", proscription, designation and human rights.
"Our tragedy and pain is part of the series of pains that is felt by people in cases like ours when laws are destroyed and flames ignited by politicians whose only desire is the achievement of their tyrannical subjugation and the spreading and domination of their lowly thoughts engulfs any notion of human rights."
See more letters from detainees
Anti-terrorism laws: unjust powers
Photo: Mark Thomas protests against the "glorification of terror" clause. more
Do anti-terror laws make us safer? Whom do they protect?
Since 2000 several ‘anti-terror' laws have been officially justified as necessary to protect us from global threats to our lives. Yet these laws have political aims and consequences.
Anti-terror powers:
define terrorism more broadly, thus blurring any distinction between anti-government protest and organized violence against civilians;
label numerous organisations as ‘terrorist', as a basis for placing entire communities under suspicion of associating with ‘terrorism';
use ‘intelligence' obtained by torturing detainees abroad;
and detain and prosecute people for suspected activities which could just as well be handled under other laws. Read more
What's new
01-01-2017
Education, Human Rights Violations in Pakistan and the Scandal involving UNHCR and Christian asylum seekers in Thailand
The third updated edition of Desmond Fernandes’ book “Education, Human Rights Violations in Pakistan and the Scandal involving UNHCR and Christian asylum seekers in Thailand” in a special low-cost affordable pdf book format for just UK £5.00!
21-12-2016
Union hails successful legal challenge to UK surveillance laws
The NUJ has welcomed the decision of the European court of justice (ECJ) today (Wednesday 21 December) that general and indiscriminate retention of email and electronic communications by the UK government is illegal. The union called on the prime minister Theresa May to implement the legal ruling rather than further waste tax payers money going to an appeal. - NUJ press release: Wednesday 21 December 2016
19-12-2016
EU Immigration 'Assistance' to Italy and Greece Seeks to Block Migrants From Leaving
Yasha Maccanico says suspicion of terrorism is often used as a pretext to ensure that people cannot have any possibility of determining their fate - therealnews.com, 19 December 2016
10-12-2016
UK counter-extremism agenda:
‘Safeguarding’ as routine punishment and collective self-policing
The Home Office programme ‘Prevent Violent Extremism’ has had mounting criticism, especially in the run-up to becoming statutory last year.
Nevertheless its measures are being expanded, supposedly to safeguard vulnerable individuals. Why? What drives the agenda?
What implications for a counter-strategy? These questions are addressed by Les Levidow in this article, based on his talk at the IHRC's Islamophobia conference held on 10th December.
10-12-2016
Islamophobia Conference 2016: "Environment of Hate and the Police State"
Two panels of experts looked at how education, the legal system and the PREVENT / Counter-terrorism regime coalesce to create an environment of hate that facilitates the operation of a de facto Police State.
19-11-2016
EVENT: Democratic transformations, Kurdish women and regional conflict - 10 December 2016
Lessons from Rojava and beyond: Workshop, exhibition and roundtable discussion - Against a background of conflict and repression in the Middle East, Kurds in four countries (Iraq, Iran, Syrian and Turkey) are asserting their political and cultural rights and transforming both themselves and the countries they live in. They pursue a democratic, secular and gender-equal political project in which women play a crucial role.
19-11-2016
'Extreme surveillance' becomes UK law with barely a whimper
Investigatory Powers Act legalises range of tools for snooping and hacking by the security services - Ewan MacAskill, The Guardian, 19 November 2016
13-11-2016
‘National Remembrance Day, Baluch Martyrs’
Speech by Desmond Fernandes, genocide scholar, member of the Campaign Against Criminalising Communities and Peace in Kurdistan (and former Senior Lecturer in Human Geography and the Geography of Genocide at De Montfort University) at the 13th November 2016 ‘National Remembrance Day, Baluch Martyrs’ meeting, held at the Cumberland Hotel, London
see News & events for more
Campaign Against Criminalising Communities Material from this site is regularly archived by the UK Web Archiving Consortium; it will be preserved for future generations at this URL. This site is powered by CMS Made Simple
