Chadderton Hall
CHADDERTON
HISTORICAL
SOCIETY
(Founded 1975)
Chadderton,
LancashireEngland
Foxdenton Hall
The Constitution
Chadderton-historical-society
School Local History Projects info
Members of Parliament Chadderton
History of Local Government
Long Serving Councillors
Christmas
Lights
Family History & Historical Research
Chadderton Town Crier
Geoff
Tootill, Baby Computer
Chadderton
Organisations
Chadderton-the-Town and its-people
places_of_worship and_education
Chadderton
Hall
Foxdenton Hall
Chadderton's Cotton Industry
Programmes of Events.
Heritage
Centre
Henry Taylor
[Olympic Gold Medallist.]
Lydia
Becker, Suffragist
Sir Philip Sidney Stott.
Peterloo. Massacre
Membership/Chs
Publications.
Favourite Links
Current
Newsletters
Secretary's
Report
Avro
History
Chadderton
Listed Building
Visitors
Guide to Chadderton
Friends
of Foxdenton
News
of the Year, Chadderton
Places of Interest and Parks
Chadderton Town Hall
c 1930
This was the second town hall and was opened in 1913.
Since April 1974, Chadderton has formed part of the newly
created Metropolitan Borough of Oldham, one of the ten
districts in the new County of Greater Manchester - a county
which no longer possesses a county council. Historically,
Chadderton remains part of Lancashire and this is its correct
postal address.
The official Coat-of-Arms of the former Chadderton
Urban District Council, granted by the College of Heralds in
September 1955. Before that date an unofficial insignia was
in use. The shield has emblems which represent the manorial
history of Chadderton.
The crest symbolises the main industries of the town:
textiles, engineering, and aircraft production.
The Society has links with several regional and national bodies concerned with the promotion of history:
Affiliated to the Historical Association - No.35186
Member of the British Association for Local History-No.920623B Member of the Lancashire Local History Federation.
Affiliated
to the Historical Association - No.35186
Member of the
British Association for Local History-No.920623B
Member
of the Lancashire Local History Federation.
Affiliated to
the Historical
Association -
No.35186
Member
of the British
Association
for Local
History-No.920623B
Member of the
Lancashire
Local History
Federation.
Affiliated to the Historical
Association - No.35186
Member of the British
Association for Local History-No.920623B
Member of the
Lancashire Local History Federation.
</>
"Preserving and
Promoting the History and Heritage
of Chadderton"
Chadderton, a town of some 33,000 people lies in the
foothills of the Pennines in the south-east of the county of
Lancashire. It is situated on the edge of the Lancashire
coalfield, and is drained by the River Irk and several of its
tributaries. The land is generally undulating, rising from
around 90 metres [300 feet] above sea level in the west to
about 140 metres [450 feet] in the east, although the hilliest
parts are in the north where a maximum of 155 metres [509
feet] is reached at Chadderton Heights.
The name Chadderton - ancient alternatives being Chatterton
and Chatherton - is derived from the Celtic 'Cader' or 'Cater'
signifying a fortified place in the hills, with the
Anglo-Saxon suffix 'tun' indicating a settlement. After the
Norman Conquest the township formed the south-eastern boundary
of the Fee or Estate of Tottington, with the Barons Montbegon
of Hornby Castle, near Lancaster, and later the Barons Lacy of
Clitheroe Castle, as the great overlords.
Under the feudal system Chadderton had its own local lords,
and the Manor of Chadderton and Foxdenton was of importance at
county and national level, providing Lancashire with
six High Sheriffs, and the Isle of Man with a Governor. Other
members of the manorial families resident at Chadderton and
Foxdenton Halls, were to be knighted by various monarchs for
services to the nation ad crown. The most famous people who
were descended from the original manorial family were William
Chadderton, Bishop of Chester and later Lincoln, and Lawrence
Chadderton, first Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and
one of the co-translaters of the Authorized Version of the
Bible.
Within the Duchy and County Palatine of Lancashire,
Chadderton formed part of the Hundred of Salford for civil
jurisdiction. In 1873, a Local Board of Health was formed to
administer the growing town and, in 1894, this became an Urban
District Council of eighteen members. For ecclesiastical
purposes Chadderton was originally part of the Parish of
Prestwich-cum-Oldham, within the extensive Diocese of
Lichfield. This was later divided to form the Diocese of
Chester, and eventually the Diocese of Manchester.
The Chadderton Historical Society was founded in
May 1975, just twelve months after local government
re-organisation and in the past quarter century has undergone
periods of expansion and consolidation . Our first
meeting place was the historic old school in Healds Green, which
dates from 1789, and it was amid such rural surroundings that
the Society became established on the local scene.
Eventually the need to find a more suitable
location,closer to the centre of Chadderton life and
more convenient for public transport, led to the
Society approaching Oldham MBC in 1986, to enquire
about the use of Chadderton Central Library for meetings,
displays of material and storage of artefacts. Support and
permission were forthcoming and in May 1987, the Twelfth
A.G.M. was the first meeting to be held at the library.
As the membership increased, and our archives continued
to grow, it became obvious that premises of our own, where
permanent displays of material could be exhibited, were
required in the long term. In 1996, the Society took its first
step towards obtaining suitable premises in Chadderton Town
Centre where a 'Heritage Centre' could be established.
This project has not been without its problems but is is hoped
that in the not to distant future we will see the scheme
become a reality.
Back in 1991, the Society was re-organised, gained
charitable status, and adopted a constitution. In this
document our main objective is stated to be: "...to promote
the advancement of education by developing public interest in
all aspects of local history."
In furtherance of this objective the Society is empowered
to:
a)
Undertake original research into aspects of
Chadderton's history;
b) Make available to the public the results of such
research;
c) Undertake the compilation and organisation of local
history material which shall form the archives of the Society;
d) Undertake the organisation of displays of local
history material.
e) Carry out archaeological excavations with guidance
from professional bodies;
f) Provide comment and give advice, when required, on
matters appertaining to the history and heritage of
Chadderton;
g) Invite guest speakers to address members of the
Society on subjects of a historical nature;
h) Organise visits to places of local and general
interest.
This site has been chosen for inclusion in
the
BRITISH LIBRARY'S Archives.
http://www.webarchive.org.uk
Arts & Humanities/History
Chadderton Historical Society
Registered Charity No. 1003804
Officials
Patron: Lady Maureen Black [Radcliffe of Foxdenton]
President: Rtd. Cllr. Jim Greenwood.
Vice-President: Councillor Colin McClaren,
Chadderton Community Council 'Champion'.
Chairman:
................................................ Mark Johnson.
Secretary:
................................................ Michael Lawson
B.Ed.,M.A.
Treasurer:
................................................ Denis Barrott.
Other Trustees:
........................................Trevor Ashworth,
Christine Dennis. Reg Lord.
Membership Sec:
...................................... Alan Clegg
Newsletter, Email and Website Sec:
....... Enid Johnson
Background music, 'Greenwood' , unknown
composor.
This page has been seen
times
Up to July 2011, this site was visited by 48700 people.
Avro History
|
School Local History Project
|
Chadderton Cotton |
Chadderton Hall |
Chadderton Listed Buildings
|
Chadderton Organisations
Chadderton Town Crier
|
Christmas Lights Sponsers
|
Current Newsletter
|
Family History & Historical Research
Favourite Links
|
Foxdenton Hall
Friends of Foxdenton |
Geoff Tootill |
News of the Year
|
Henry Taylor
|
Heritage Centre |
Long serving Councillors |
Lydia Becker |
Membership
& CHS booklets | Peterloo
|
Programme of Events |
Secretary's Report
|
Sir Philip Sidney Stott |
Worship & Education |
Visitors Guide to Chadderton
|
Chadderton-Historical-Society
Best viewed with 800x600 screen resolution
Last Modified: 22/10/2011 Copyright Chadderton
Historical Society 1999-2011
