Children in Scotland
Skip to main content
Basket 0
|
Checkout
Member log-in
Search form
Search
Home
About UsOur members
Join Children in Scotland
Our vision
What we do
Governance
Our Staff
Work with us
Our ServicesEnquire & Resolve:ASL
Hosted Services
Consultancy services
Publishing services
Training & event support
Room hire
Policy & ResearchCurrent projects
Previous projects
Current Consultations
Previous Consultations
Policy resources
Scotland and UK Policy Tracker
News & MediaPress releases
Latest News
Comment & Analysis
Press coverage
Press enquiries
Training & EventsEvents calendar
Find an event
Event sponsorship
Event exhibition
Learning and Development
Publications & ResourcesFind a publication/resource
Children in Scotland magazine
Children in Europe magazine
Training & Events reports
Publishing services
Tell us your ideas
Contact
Policy and legislation for youProjects, briefings and consultations on topics that matterFind out more
CPD to meet your needsOur range of training and events is affordable and practicalBook today
Children in Scotland magazineNews, comment and features from across the sectorDownload the latest issue
Use our services Enquire and Resolve: ASLWe can help with additional support for learning and mediationRead more
‹
›
Children in Scotland is the collective voice for children, young people and families in Scotland, and organisations
and businesses that have a significant positive impact on children’s lives. We are an influencing and membership organisation, comprised of representatives from the voluntary, public and private sectors.
Our vision is that Scotland will become a world leader in securing the wellbeing of every child and improving the quality of every childhood.
Our Vision and Values: what we believe in
Children in Scotland’s values are based on trust, transparency, collaboration, accountability and respect. A belief in children’s rights underpins our work
Our range of publications and sector resources
Browse to our bimonthly membership magazine and find publications on topics including mindfulness, inclusion, child protection and early years policy
Hosted services: NPFS and Parenting Across Scotland
Find out more about the parent-led representative body the National Parent Forum of Scotland and the family support charity Parenting Across Scotland
Our policy projects and nationwide programmes
From architectural design for children to improving life chances of young people who’ve experienced violence, read more about our range of work.
Popular pages
Training and Events calendar
Children in Scotland magazine - latest issue
Current Policy consultations
Twitter
Why primary schools need to embrace picture books to boost literacy.
What do you think?
https://t.co/zfpkUinofA via @tes
—
5 hours 41 min ago
Campaigners hail school decision to let pupils choose gender identity. (England)
https://t.co/tndbALLphp
—
5 hours 43 min ago
How are you going to celebrate #chocolatemintday - with hot chocolate, ice-cream or a good old-fashioned after-dinn… https://t.co/3iw5KiCkAd
—
5 hours 55 min ago
Sign up to our Daily News & Update
Sign up to find out about latest events and activities at Children in Scotland
Contact
Level 1, Rosebery House,9 Haymarket TerraceEdinburgh. EH12 5EZUnited Kingdom0131 313 2322info@childreninscotland.org.ukwww.childreninscotland.org.uk
A company limited by guarantee registered in Scotland, Inland Revenue No. 83383
A charity registered in Scotland, Charity No. SC003527
