Cytun - Eglwysi Ynghyd yng Nghymru | Churches Together in Wales
• Cymraeg/Welsh •
Home  •  Contact  •  Who We Are  •  Partners  •  Staff  •  Our Work  •  Wales/Europe  •  Faith, Order and Witness  •  Church and Society  •  Archive
Links:
2017-18 Work Plan [PDF]
Commission of the Covenanted Churches in Wales
The Gathering 2012
Interfaith Wales
Public Events Calendar
Cymraeg / Welsh
A Warm Welcome to Cytûn's Website
Cytûn unites in pilgrimage those churches in Wales which, acknowledging God's revelation in Christ, confess the Lord Jesus Christ as God and Saviour according to the Scriptures; and, in obedience to God's will and in the power of the Holy Spirit, commit themselves to seek a deepening of their communion with Christ and with one another in the Church, which is his body, and to fulfil their mission to proclaim the Gospel by common witness and service in the world, to the glory of the one God Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
We strive to do this in a number of ways.
Click here for our latest newsletter.
Cytûn Policy Bulletin
Click here to download the February Policy Bulletin (pdf document)
(picture above: Sam Rex-Edwards + Nia Higgingbotham)
Welsh churches unite to protect economic and human rights during EU withdrawl.
An alliance of Welsh Christian denominations has drawn up a detailed list of economic measures and human rights for discussion during the Brexit process. The initiative, instigated by the Union of Welsh Independent Churches, unites the mainstream denominations in presenting a Christian perspective on the core issues that could impact on society during and after Brexit. In a submission to the Welsh Affairs Committee, the churches identify key policy issues, including the rights of minority and linguistic communities, agriculture and the environment and the future relationship with other nations and states.
Click here for the full statement.
Week of Prayer for Christian Unity 2017
Click here to order your copy of the resource.
Cytûn is currently working closely with CCME concerning refugees.
Please click on link to find out more:
www.ccme.be/who-we-are/
Cytûn is a registered company in England and Wales | Number: 05853982 | Registered name: "Cytûn: Eglwysi Ynghyd yng Nghymru/Churches Together in Wales Limited"
Cytûn is a registered charity | Number: 1117071
