Diamond Jubilee - Tyne and Wear
The Official Royal Website - Buckingham Palace -
The British Monarchy
A Personal Welcome From
The Lord Lieutenant
Learn More About The Queen's Diamond Jubilee
Search for Diamond Jubilee Events and Activities
Image Gallery
Submit Your Own Local Event To Our Listings
Links to Other National and International Jubilee Events
Click here to view 360 degree panorama views through the decades.
The Lord-Lieutenant is Her Majesty’s representative in Tyne and Wear with the
overall duty to uphold the dignity of the Crown.
The Lord-Lieutenant carries out
a wide variety of duties, working closely with voluntary services, benevolent
organisations.
A Welcome From The Lord Lieutenant
In my
role as Lord-Lieutenant for Tyne and Wear I
would like to welcome you to the Tyne & Wear Diamond Jubilee website.
In
this, the 60th year of Her Majesty’s reign, I know that communities up and down the
country are looking at their own ways of celebrating the reign of one of the
most loved and admired monarchs in our history.
Plans for the Diamond Jubilee
We all
have our own images of The Queen, from the television, newspapers, magazines
and, for some, the pleasure of seeing Her Majesty at an event or Royal visit. The
most iconic of these images for many includes the then teenage Princess
Elizabeth driving an ambulance as Her contribution to the war effort during
1940s, while for others the annual state opening of Parliament reflects
the pageantry we are famous for in this country.
Here in
Tyne & Wear we have a long and fond association with Her Majesty
and indeed Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother spent part of her childhood here at
Gibside.  We have been privileged to host
a number of visits by HM The Queen and The Duke of Edinburgh over the years including
the opening of the Millennium Bridge and Washington
School and visits to South Tyneside
Marine College
and the Tynemouth Volunteer Life Brigade.
I am
sure we will all have our own ways of wanting to celebrate the Diamond Jubilee
and I hope you will use this website to promote your events and give others the
opportunity to take part.
Throughout
the year we will be including information on events taking place across Tyne
& Wear as well as promoting the website to communities more
widely in order for them to publish information themselves on what’s happening.
You will
also find downloadable copies of the Diamond Jubilee logo for your own use,
subject to guidelines, together with other helpful information to use when
planning your event and contact numbers for all five Tyne
and Wear authorities. In the 11
years of my Lieutenancy I have experienced, on many occasions, the great
affection and high esteem in which HM The Queen is held by the people of Tyne and Wear and I am looking forward with pleasure
to being part of
the wonderful celebrations that are being
organised.
The Lieutenancy of Tyne & Wear, Tel: 0191 477 2006,
Fax: 0191 433 330
View the Lord Lieutenant's website >>
Royal Websites -
Price Charles, The Prince of Wales - Prince William, The Duke of Cambridge - Prince Philip, The Duke of Edinburgh - View Royal Engagements
