Ditton Parish Council
Clubs & societies
Community Centre
Council
Home
News
Open Spaces
Council
Ditton Parish Council was formed in 1894 when Parliament passed laws that Parishes will have their own Councils.  For dates, agenda and minutes of Ditton Parish Council and its committees, please visit the Meetings page. To see the current structure of the committees and other appointments, please visit the Committees page.
Committees
Full details of the committes that cover all aspects of council responsibilities.
Find out who you need to contact, who belongs to the committee as well as the full schedule of past and future meetings.
Halls for hire
The Community Centre has three main halls or rooms available for hire.  All access to the Community Centre is wheelchair friendly.
We regret that bookings for 16th, 17th and 18th Birthday Parties are not accepted.
Clubs and societies
Is your club or group looking for somewhere to meet? Need a hall or venue locally?
Ditton Community Centre is ready for you! For more information on any of the Clubs that use the Community Centre, please click on the links below.
The following clubs and societies all meet at the Ditton Community Centre.
List of local clubs that do not meet at the community centre.
Community Centre
The Community Centre has three main halls or rooms available for hire.  All access to the Community Centre is wheelchair friendly.
We regret that bookings for 16th, 17th and 18th Birthday Parties are not accepted.
Open Spaces
There are two Recreation Grounds located in the parish of Ditton. This picture above is of the playground, which was installed in 1988 located at New Road Recreation Ground.  It is accessed via New Road, the Stream of Ditton Place and has Junior Football pitches which are leased to Ditton Minors Football Club.
Community Centre Committee
Submitted by mandy.davis on Fri, 08/04/2016 - 08:41
Read more about Community Centre Committee
Full Council Meeting
Submitted by nicola.greenaway on Thu, 07/04/2016 - 11:24
Read more about Full Council Meeting
Full Council Meeting
Submitted by nicola.greenaway on Thu, 07/04/2016 - 11:21
Read more about Full Council Meeting
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next
Latest news
101 the new national non-emergency Police
Kilnbarn Entertainment
60s NIGHT WITH TOP BEATS AT DITTON COMMUNITY CENTRE
PARISH TREE TAGGING
ENVIRONMENTAL CHAMPIONS AWARDS
Read more news
Open Spaces
Allotments
Ditton Quarry Nature Reserve
Kilnbarn Recreation Ground
Multi-Games Area
Playground
Halls for Hire
Acorn Room
Don Carman Hall
Don Carman Hall Wedding Package
Oaken Hall
Oaken Hall Wedding package
Clubs & Societies
Clubs at Ditton Community Centre
Local clubs & organisations
Committees
Full Council
Planning Committee
Community Centre Committee
Open Spaces & Amenities
Finance & Administration Committee
Personnel Committee
Contact
Parish Council Office
Ditton Community Centre
Kilnbarn Road
Aylesford, Kent ME20 6AH
T: 01732 844 749
F: 01732 845 572E: clerk@dittonparishcouncil.gov.uk
© Ditton Parish Council
Website by G A Mackman Ltd
