Douai Abbey
Douai Abbey
Go to content
Main menu:
×
Home Page
Who we are
History
A Brief History
Centenary History
Our Patron, St Edmund
Douai Benedictines
Monastic Life at Douai
St Benedict
The English Benedictines
Vocations
Vocation Overview
Becoming a Monk
Discernment
Our Monks
Secular Oblates
What we do
Worship
Liturgy
Douai Abbey Singers
Hospitality
Guesthouse
Conferences
Cottages
Pastoral Programme
Parishes
Library & Archive
What's new
News
Concerts
Prayer requests
Contact Us
Links
Douai Abbey is home to a community of monks of the English Benedictine Congregation. The monastery is under the patronage of St Edmund, King & Martyr, and was founded in Paris in 1615. Uprooted by the French Revolution it settled at Douai in Flanders, and finally returned to England in 1903, settling at Woolhampton in Berkshire.Until 1999 the community ran a school. Douai monks still maintain the other principal English Benedictine apostolate, serving the Church in parishes throughout England. At the monastery itself we welcome guests on retreats or courses, as well as those who seek merely some quiet time. There are facilities for conferences of modest size, and youth or chaplaincy groups. Our library and archive building houses a rich resource for study and research, and is open to researchers and students by application. From time to time we host a number of sacred concerts given by leading performers.However, the primary work of the monks is the regular celebration of the sung Divine Office and the Mass, and all such liturgical worship is open to the public. If you are a single Catholic man between the ages, generally, of 18 and 45 and wonder if you might be called to share our way of life, please do look at our information on vocations. Our website explains our life and history in greater depth, but you are always welcome to come and see.
At the hour of Divine Office let each one, as soon as he hears the signal, lay aside whatever he may be engaged with and respond with all speed, yet also with gravity, that no occasion be given for levity. Let nothing, then, be preferred to the Work of God.Rule of St Benedict, Chapter 43
Monk, by young American artist Gaelen Mibeck
Latest News
» Impending hiatusPublished by Webmaster - 23/1/2017 13:32:00» Abbots' NewsPublished by Webmaster - 19/1/2017 18:35:00» Back in the SwingPublished by Webmaster - 14/1/2017 09:58:00
Home Page | Who we are | What we do | What's new | Contact Us | Links | General Site Map
Back to content | Back to main menu
To use this website you must enable JavaScript.
