Engaging Places
A resource to support teaching and learning through buildings and places
Home
In your area
Teaching resources
Network
About us
News
19 February 2017
Home
Engaging Places is the leading guide to using buildings and places for learning and teaching. Hundreds of resources are hosted here including lesson plans, teaching resources about architecture and design, great places to visit or learn about, and details of other useful organisations and upcoming events.The portal is part of Open-City, the architecture and built environment organisation that provides architectural education for young people, the public, and professionals and communities.Sign up to our newsletter
In the spotlight
Newsfeed
Lesson plans and activities
Links to great resources to use local buildings and places in memorable lessons.
Teaching & Learning
Archikids: Engaging Places, Engaging Children
Archikids Festival 2015 was a great success - Open-City's flagship family festival of architecture.
Teaching resources
Engaging Places workshops with Heritage Alliance
Download the presentations of the recent Engaging Places workshops with Heritage Alliance
Teaching resources
Teaching Resources on Engaging Places
What does the Teaching Resources section have to offer? Find out here...
Teaching resources
Architecture in Focus – Turner Contemporary
Find out all about this great addition to the ranks of Britain's new generation of art galleries...
Teaching resources
Architecture in focus: The Deep
The Deep is an award winning aquatic space, a place where young people can explore the story of the world’s oceans and enjoy the urban public realm.
Teaching resources
Architecture in focus: Tilbury Fort
Tilbury Fort is a brilliant example of purposeful design, known today as Britain's best preserved fort, learn how its defensive elements deterred anyone from attacking.
In your area
Open House London weekend 2016
Hundreds of inspirational buildings will open their doors for London's FREE architectural showcase.
In your area
Festival of British Archaeology 2015
Over 1,000 ways to dig deeper into the past…
In your area
Uncovering streetscapes
Streetscapes provide a host of hidden avenues for learning. On the doorstep, free to visit and with scope for inspiring activities across the curriculum - what are you waiting for?
In your area
Theatres: an inspiring place to learn
A visit to a local theatre can provide opportunities for creative cross-curricular learning. We reveal the clues theatre buildings can provide about technology, social history and values and attitudes.
In your area
Visiting a sacred space
Now there's no excuse for not using your local mosque, synagogue or church in your lessons. Here are some tips on integrating a visit into your curriculum planning.
Network
Unforgettable lessons: overview
Engaging Places network projects show schools and cultural organisations enhancing the curriculum by working together.
Network
Design inspired by buildings: teaching resources
Activities, resources and links to encourage your students to use the buildings and places around them as a source of design inspiration.
Network
Unforgettable Lessons final report: Bristol Design
Students design a new community development.
Network
Unlocking the past through streets and buildings
Want to try work like this with your class? Try these ideas.
Network
Tales from the Palace
Inspired by stories about Kensington Palace and its inhabitants, year 5 students wrote, performed and directed films breathing new life into the past.
About us
Engaging Places research
Presenting research that assesses the supply and demand of built environment education in schools throughout England.
About us
Engaging Places
What is Engaging Places and what does it have to offer you? Find out here...
About us
For venues and organisations
List your educational resources and events on the Engaging Places website.
About us
Engaging Places works with Culture24
Find out more about Culture 24
About us
Press release: New initiative reveals 'the world's biggest teaching resource'
The launch of the Engaging Places website will help every school exploit 'the world's biggest teaching resource'.
Article
Engaging Places
Find out what this site can offer to you...
Today on Engaging Places
615resources
521venues
331articles
Article
NEW!! Key Stage 4 Maths resources...
Great new lessons plans for your Maths class.
Article
Search
Browse by topic
Architecture in focus
Architecture & Built Environment centres
School case studies
Heritage
Browse by subject
Art and design
Citizenship
Design and technology
English
Geography
History
Computing
Maths
Science
Recently added
New content is continually added to the site. Check out the list below for latest events. Or visit the complete list of items.
Museums at Night at All Saints Church
19 May 2017
The Churches Conservation Trust, London
Film Nights @ The Lightbox
9 March 2017
The Lightbox, Woking
Victorian Explorers with Exmoor Zoo
2 — 3 August 2017
Dunster Castle and Gardens - National Trust
A Soiree with Alistair Tucker RBSA
6 June 2017
Grosvenor Museum, Chester
Kaleidoscope Mindful Colouring
19 May 2017
Yorkshire Sculpture Park, Wakefield
Search our map
Search: venue, town or postcode
Copyright © Open-City Architecture unless otherwise
stated. Powered by Culture 24.
Contact us
Sitemap
Terms and conditions
Newsletter
Accessibility
