Fernhurst Society homepage
Homepage
EventsMembership
Junior Section
Fernhurst village
Fernhurst history
Biodiversity
Publications
Photos
Links
Contacts
Site map
RSS feed
The Fernhurst Society
The Fernhurst Society was formed in 1998 and has 200 members.
It is a registered UK charity (no. 1074564).
The
Society's aims
Enrich the enjoyment of Fernhurst village and its surrounding countryside in West Sussex, England
Promote interest in local history, local life, traditions and customs
Advance and disseminate knowledge of the archaeology, geography, natural history, buildings and architecture of the local district
Seek the protection and improvement of the amenities and appearance of Fernhurst village and its environs
Village centre (photo © Richard Ranft)
News
Fernhurst Neighbourhood Plan
2013-2028: UPDATE The plan was formally adopted in April
2016. The final version can be downloaded here: www.fernhurstpc.org.uk/fnp-referendumdoc. Background: 1999 Fernhurst Village Design Statement.
Researching your family history? We have unique transcripts of 1841-1911 censuses, 1840s tithe records of Fernhurst and neighbouring parishes, wills and probate records, and other data. Now with a complete names index - a rich resource for genealogy!
Plans for oil and gas well near
Fernhurst village centre.
Celtique Energie's planning application (ref: SDNP/13/05896/CM) for an exploration well close to Fernhurst village centre, in Nine Acre Copse was rejected in 2014 by the South Downs National Park authorities and plans by Celtique Energie to appeal
were abandoned.
Major building development at Fernhurst Park (Ex-ICI/Syngenta site): Comer Homes Ltd plan to build 210 new homes.
Finally - don't forget to check our upcoming events list and recent newsletter
Tweets by @fsoc
What you can find on this website:
membership
of the Fernhurst Society including recent members' newsletters
our programme of walks,
talks, exhibitions and other events, including those organised for
our Junior Section.
information about Fernhurst village and parish and an interactive map
village local history:
the Fernhurst Archives, with information
about the May Revels celebrations, the Verdley estate, and historical
maps; the recent history of shops, roads,
and railways in and around Fernhurst village;
photos of the area; schooling and social
life in Edwardian times;
and our oral history recording
project
the history of Fernhurst
Parish including parish boundary walks
and the 17-18th century local iron industry; a survey of homes and families during the 1841-1911 censuses and land rents from 1840s tithe records
Fernhurst Society publications,
including the book Voices of Fernhurst, booklets and a millennium
map
our biodiversity
monitoring project
links to local organisations
and information sources, including family history and genealogy.
You can follow changes to this website via Twitter or with our
RSS feed
The Society arose out of the work undertaken by villagers
to produce the Fernhurst Village Design Statement. Adopted by Chichester District Council in 2000, the Statement provides guidelines for future
building developments in the area.
TOP
Village green (photo © Dave Spicer)
View from Blackdown Hill (photo © Robin Webster)
search this website
search all the Web
Contacts
Contact us:
Alternatively, you can
use our contact
form
To see the email addresses on this page,
you must enable JavaScript under your web browser's settings.
