Games Monitor | debunking Olympics myths
Games Monitor Skip to main content.
debunking Olympics myths
Home | Blog | Events | Video | Contact & Media Centre | Books | Links | About
Latest Stories
Aftermath 2012 - Anything in Stratford is an Olympic Legacy
Aftermath2012: First they came for the residents, businesses, gardeners, then they came for the artists
Aftermath 2012 - Affordable Housing Squeeze
The Aftermath 2012 - Four Years on, a Legacy of MINUS 4,000 Jobs
The Aftermath - of the London2012 stadium
Videos from No Eviction for Olympics protest - Tokyo 2020
Aftermath 2012 - a tapestry of lies, destruction and theft
'Many a Darkly-Woven Lie' - The Aftermath: London2012 compensation battles continue
Emergency Statement Regarding the Japan Sports Council's Shutdown of Meiji Park
more
Upcoming events
no upcoming events availablemore
Document Archive
2012 Olympics Host City Contract Technical Manuals
IOC Technical Manual on Olympic Games Impact
Olympics Stadium Agreement between London Legacy Development Corporation (LLDC) and West Ham
ODA Annual Report Accounts 2010
Cities Methodologies 2012
Also see the list of attachments
more
Articles by date
Read all articles in date order
Aftermath 2012 - Anything in Stratford is an Olympic Legacy
Back in July 2016 after I posted an article about job creation in the aftermath of London2012 on Games Monitor BBC Radio 4's You and Yours programme contacted me for an interview. They had come across my FoI requests which showed that so far fewer than 1000 jobs had been created on the Olympic Park and LLDC projections for homes within the Park were likely to be lower than 6,650. In fact following further reseach I found that the figure is probably around 4,700 with the possibility of a 'legacy' of almost no genuinely affordable housing when taking into account the demolition of housing at Clays Lane and Park Village for the Olympics.
My interview with You and Yours was pre-recorded making it impossible for me to argue on air. The programme then held a live interview with the London Legacy Development Corporation's Director of Communications, Marketing and Strategy, Ben Fletcher, who proceeded to claim the LLDC would be creating 40,000 jobs and 24,000 homes. He compared this with a town the size of Milton Keynes in its early stages.
The BBC interviewer pointed out that Stratford City, the massive development next to the Olympic Park, would have been built anyway. Fletcher couldn't disagree with this obvious statement but resorted to the usual strategy of casting doubt on whether Stratford City would have been completed given the credit crunch. Fletcher also repeated the canard of the 'catalytic' effect and declared "what we don't know and what we will never know is whether those projects would have survived without the Olympics." Many people, he thought, would say they would not have done so.
Sadly in these circumstances reporters are often not well versed in the specifics of the case. For example, the much touted 'catalytic' effect had been discounted long before in 2003 by the Olympics master planner, Jason Prior. A property journalist had reported:
Prior believes the long-term regeneration elements and development opportunities will happen with or without the Olympics. What may differ is the pace of change. In the event of a successful bid, developers in partnerships might have to play a longer-term game – the land would not be freed for its end use until after the 2012 event.
Submitted by Julian Cheyne on Wed, 25/01/2017 - 15:31.
Article | Compulsory Purchase | Corruption & Ethics | Housing | Jobs | Legacy | London 2012 | Planning & Development | Regeneration
read more
An introduction to the social impacts of the Olympics
The Olympics project is large and complex. In this revised version of our previous paper of the same name, we draw your attention to significant impacts, the paucity of procedures for impact evaluation, and the processes surrounding the bidding for, and promotion of, the Olympic event.
more
Contamination & Radioactivity
The greenest Games ever?
Sweet indeed - Olympic site was 'real hive of activity and industrial innovation'
Lest we forget - Dow, the company the IOC likes to do business with
more
World class games in London
How the 2012 Olympics is changing my neighbourhood
The Olympic Park is opening more to the public after the Games. It is a time to reflect on the changes which have been imposed on my locality ...
by Martin Slavin, a photo essay worldclassgamesin.london
Popular topics
2012 Construction
2012 Legacy
Corruption & Ethics
Displacement
Environment
Human Rights
Legacy
London 2012
Mega Events
Planning & Development
Protest
Regeneration
Glasgow Games Monitor
Glasgow Games Monitor 2014 are a group of people raising awareness about the impacts of ‘regeneration’ via the Commonwealth Games 2014 (CG 2014), and the Clyde Gateway Intiative (CGI): gamesmonitor2014.org @2014games
playthegame.org
Play the Game is an international conference and communication initiative aiming to strengthen the ethical foundation of sport and promote democracy, transparency and freedom of expression in sport. Based at the Danish Institute for Sports Studies its website is a portal for a wide range of journalists and academics articles highlighting mismanagement and corruption in sport.
playthegame.org
@playthegame_org
The London 2012 Olympics: A gender equality audit
New report published April 2013, available in Play the Game's knowledge bank, analyses gender equality at the 2012 London Olympic Games
Discussion Group
Visit our email discussion forum and archive about the London Olympics and other mega-events.
Tweets by @gamesmonitor
Games Monitor
Site Topics
Displacement
Environment
Finance
Health
Jobs
Legacy
Mega Events
People
Planning & Development
Politics
Security
Sport
Sustainability
Tourism
Transport
>> see Site Map for all topics
Who we are
Games Monitor is a network of people raising awareness about issues within the 2012 London Olympic development processes.
This site provides information from the press and local sources. Support us by contributing articles and comments, and join our discussion forum.
Home | Blog | Events | Video | Contact & Media Centre | Books | Links | About
How you can help us | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Accessibility | Site Map
Games Monitor since 2006
built with
by carola.co.uk
