Hidden London
Home
Index of Places
The Guide
London Gazetteer
Miscellany
Demographics
London’s EU Referendum voting
London football geography
London football history
London websites
London boroughs map
Nuggets
Pronunciation guide
About
Advertising ratecard
Privacy policy
Contact
Previous
Next
Hidden London takes an informative, histor­ically inclined look at a variety of the capital’s more obscure attractions, curiosities, districts and localities. The two main sections are:
In-​​depth, illus­trated articles featuring relatively recherché attractions with qualities that make them worth visiting – or at least stopping to admire on your way past.
London Gazetteer
More than 600 potted histories of the capital’s diverse districts and localities, with an emphasis on lesser-​​known places throughout Greater London. They’re listed in the Index.
Nuggets is a new section with brief articles on subjects as varied as the ravens of the Tower, London’s
projected 10-​​year population growth, being on one’s Jack Jones and all you need to know about the Knowledge.
New in the Gazetteer section: highlights from the history of Chelsea
To find a specific place, please consult the Index or use the search box, top right. To cruise Hidden London at random, you’ll find this button at the top of the sidebar on most pages:
Hidden London also includes some appetising extracts from Brewer’s Dictionary of London Phrase & Fable, an annotated map of London’s boroughs, pages on the history and geography of London football and links to other useful websites.
You can receive alerts about new and enhanced pages – plus other London titbits – on Twitter.
These are some of the latest additions and updates on Hidden London:
Normansfield Theatre is a unique Victorian survivor in an unlikely setting
Hidden London visits Sutton House, a Tudor courtier’s country home in Hackney
Little histories of Honor Oak and Honor Oak Park
Mitcham: the Canons, the common, the cricket green, the church and the clock tower
The story of Upton (Newham), where the father of antiseptic surgery, Joseph Lister, was born in the house shown in the water­colour below
1.  London boroughs map
2.  Pronunciation
3.  Little Italy
4.  Thamesmead
5.  London football
6.  Hackney Wick
7.
Roman Bath
8.  Fish Island
9.  Caledonian Market
10.
Woolwich
(based on page views in 2015)
Leighton HouseA one-​​bedroom Arabic palace of Victorian art in Kensington.
Walthamstow VillageAn unexpected treat in an undis­tin­guished district.
All SaintsProbably London’s most dazzling church interior.
WoolwichThis ‘town within a city’ is a magnet for military history buffs.
Caledonian MarketBrowse among dishes, decanters, candle­sticks and cutlery.
Kempton SteamSee the two most powerful pumping engines in Europe.
Home
Index of Places
The Guide
Gazetteer
Miscellany
About
Contact
Sources Some of the text content of Hidden London is drawn from Chambers London Gazetteer and Brewer’s Dictionary of London Phrase & Fable and this material is reproduced here with the permission of the publishers.
Some small print All content © Hidden London 2005–2017, except where stated otherwise.
Hidden London is a parti­cipant in the Amazon EU Associates Programme, an affiliate advertising programme designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon​.co​.uk.
This site uses cookiesUnderstoodMore info
