Higham Parish Council - Home Page
Welcome
to the website for...
Higham
Parish Council
(Find us on  Facebook)
(Parish
Clerk: 01474 822642) Read our web site cookie policy
Meetings | Councillors | Clerk | News |2016 Annual Newsletter  | Lower Thames Crossing | More |Links
The
Parish of Higham nestles between the River Thames and the North Downs
midway between Gravesend and the Medway towns.  It is part of Gravesham
Borough within the County of Kent.
Charles Dickens, the celebrated English novelist, made Higham his home
in 1856 and died here at Gads Hill Place in June 1870. Much more information and news throughout this web site - please explore it fully.
There
are gas main roadworks underway in various village roads.
Higham Gardens for Pleasure 2016 Winners Announced
Love Higham day, 4th February
Lower Thames Crossing
Important
information about the public consultation and local events.
>> Please click here for LTC Web Update 18 <<
>> See photographs of the Public Meeting with
Highways England, Saturday 12th March 2016.
>> See video recordings of the Question and Answer session:
Part One | Part Two |Part Three
>> Link to the Radio Kent debate on Lower Thames Crossing.
¬ ¬ ¬ ¬ ¬
Download and print our NO to Option C poster
(Formats:  Word | PDF | JPEG | GIF )
Below: Higham villagers turned out on Saturday 13th February to demonstrate against Option C
whilst BBC South East Today reporter Fiona Irving interviewed Cllr Harold Craske.
26th January 2017 - Even though it is exactly one year since the start of Consultation on the Lower Thames Crossing - there is still no announcement or indeed any publication of the outcome of that consultation.
The Gravesham wide Lower Thames Crossing Association and the Thurrock based Thames Crossing Action Group continue to campaign against Option C and push for Highways England and the Government to consider alternative options.
The Parish Council will keep you informed of any developments - but for the moment - it’s watch this space!!
Next PC Meeting Date CHANGED - 6th March 2017
L
a t e s t    U p d a t e s   a n d
E v e n t s...
Village Litter Picking
Allotment Plots Available |'Love Higham' Campaign
Nowadays
a private school, Gads Hill Place was Charles Dickens home until he
died.
A
reminder that Higham village is a rural community.
Up to top of page.  Contact
us by email: enquiries@higham-kent-pc.gov.uk
More
about Higham Parish
Your
Parish Councillors
Higham
location map
Contact
the Parish Clerk
Parish
Council Meetings
2016 Annual Newsletter
Local
Higham links page
Announcements
Search
The WebThis Site
for
Get
a Free Search Engine for Your Web Site
Website
comments or queries? Email the Webmaster:
Webmaster@higham-kent-pc.gov.uk
Last
Revised ~
18 February, 2017
Web
site design and creation by
Clive
Stanley Associates 01474
822676
Copyright
© 2004 - 2017 Higham Parish Council
