Higham Village History Group
The
next Meeting is on
Thursday 16th March 2017
at 8.00pm
in Higham Memorial Hall,
School Lane, Higham, ME3 7JL
"GRAVESHAM’S RAILWAYS"
Speaker: Rob Poole
Gravesham has a rich railway history starting with industrial lines in the early 19th century through to today’s high speed international railway. This illustrated presentation looks at this timeline and the events both interesting and humorous that shaped the local lines.
All
welcome. Members free,
visitors £3.50 per person.
Forthcoming author talk
at Gravesend Library, Windmill Street, Gravesend, Kent, DA12 1BE.
On Wednesday 22nd March 2017, from 3:30pm – 5:30pm join local author Toni Mount as she launches her new Sebastian Foxley Medieval Murder Mystery “The Colour of Cold Blood”. Toni will also be talking about her books, her writing career and the research she does into medieval London. See a
Poster.
Tickets cost £2.50 including refreshments and must be booked in advance.  Telephone: 03000 41 31 31
or Email: gravesendlibrary@kent.gov.uk
Visit: www.kent.gov.uk/libs
The Higham Village History Group arranged a special event on Saturday September 19th 2015 -- a walk through some glorious woodland close to Higham -- Ashenbank Wood (photograph, right).
See more plus photos of the event.
Volume 2 of
A History of Higham
was launched at the September 2012 meeting.
Both Volume 1 and 2 are available to purchase from
Higham Post Office (£5.00
each). Any profits are split between St John's Church, Higham and
Higham Village History Group.
See here for all
orders by post.
See our other publications.
** See the World War I time line of events in Kent.
Website
Contents
About
Us
Guess the Year Quiz Answers
Meetings
Contact
Us
Publications
Down
Memory Lane 1
Down
Memory Lane 2
A
Profile of St Mary's Church
Previous
Meeting Archive
Links
(To email us, please click
here.)
The WebThis Site
for
Love Higham -- see more information.
The Obelisk at Higham on the Thames and Medway Canal
About
Us
The
Higham Village History Group was formed in May 1997 by those villagers interested
in local history and is affiliated to the Kent History Federation. Higham is
a large village situated between Gravesend and the Medway Towns in north-west
Kent. For a Higham location map, please click
here.
Membership
of the Village History Group has grown steadily and costs £8.00 per person
per year with visitors at £3.50 per meeting. Complimentary light refreshments
are available after all meetings. Membership fees are reviewed at the AGM. Membership
is for 12 months and renewable in May. Membership entitles you to free entry
to all our meetings and talks by invited guest speakers but does not cover the ticket cost of any
Special Events.  Fundraising
Raffles are held at our Christmas time meeting and at our AGM.
We
hold our meetings at 8.00pm bi-monthly on the third Thursday of the month in the Memorial Hall, School
Lane, Higham.  See the Meeting Dates listed below for more details or download our 2016/2017 Programme .
Like us on Facebook
-- search for Higham Village History Group.
Click
here for more information about the Larkin Monument.
The
History Group has a growing collection of old photographs and is very keen to
collect more.   Here on our web site we have two pages of old photographs
that show all areas of life in the past including: pictures of people in front
of shops or buildings that are no longer here; social occasions and carnival
processions; School or Church activities; agricultural scenes – farm workers,
machinery, hop or fruit picking.  Click here to
go down memory lane...
Back
to top
HELP!!?
Thank you to all who contacted us to help with extra information on previous queries.
Do
you recognise the occasions or people in these photographs below?  HVHG need your help.  Click
here for more information.
More Help Sought...Can you please provide any answers to these queries
1.	“Harbrook”, Charles Dickens Avenue. A request for information about its use as a nursing home in the 1950’s.
2.	Paddy Lodge, School Lane.
How did it get its name?
3.	Bentley Cottages.
We have had confirmation that these were located next to The Village Club, Hermitage Road, and later known as Club Cottages.
Is this correct?
4.
We are seeking information on the semi-wild horses roaming
Higham Marshes and surrounding areas.
Were they abandoned by gypsies or previous owners or have they escaped somehow?.
Have you any further information regards them, how long they they have been there etc?
Please reply using the “Email Us” link
or phone 01634 718285.
Royal Celebration "Guess the Year Quiz" Answers , 11th June 2016
Here are the answers to our Quiz at the Royal Celebrations event on Higham Rec..
St Mary's Church
Gravesham Borough Council have produced a short video of the historic and special St Mary's Church, Lower Higham.
Higham History in the Making
Higham was on the route for the first ever Tour de France cycle race to
start in Great Britain.  On Sunday 8th July 2007 this grand spectacle
came through Higham on the A226.  Click
here for more details & photographs.
On 20th July 2012, the Olympic Torch was carried through Higham onwards to the start of the London 2012 Games.
michael kors factory outletManolo Blahnik Ukisabel marant sneakers salenike free 3.0Canada Goose Jackets Outletcheap Giuseppe Zanotti Shoeschristian louboutin shoes saleray ban wayfarerroger vivier outlet uk
roger vivier outlet ukcheap barbour coat
Meeting
Dates for the 2016/2017 Season
All meetings are at 8pm in the Memorial Hall, School Lane, Higham, ME3 7JL. Free entry for members - £3.50 for non-members.  See our programme .
THURSDAY JULY 21ST 2016 --
"SURVIVAL OF THE WEEDIEST" Speaker: Richard Moyse.
Ranscombe Farm, Cuxton and its wonderful wildflowers.
An illustrated talk about one of the UK’s most important wildflower reserves.
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 15TH 2016 -- TALK Speaker: Cyril Baldwin WEIRD WILLS, FUNNY FUNERALS AND ECCENTRIC EPITAPHS
-- We’ve all heard of Shakespeare’s second best bed bequeathed to his wife but Cyril Baldwin, one of Kent’s major public speakers, has many such curiosities to share with us.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 17TH 2016 -- TALK Speaker: Neil Arnold KENT URBAN MYTHS --
A welcome return to Neil, who never fails to entertain, with his quirky view of our county’s history, curiosities and strange happenings.
As this is our last meeting before Christmas there will be seasonal refreshments and a raffle.
THURSDAY JANUARY 19TH 2017 -- TALK Speaker: Andrew Rootes HIGHAM HOUSES AND HOMES -- The author of Higham in Old Photographs and History of Higham returns to tell us about some of the interesting dwellings in our village and the development of housing and the expansion of Higham through the years.
THURSDAY MARCH 16TH
2017 -- TALK Speaker: Rob Poole GRAVESHAM’S RAILWAYS --
Gravesham has a rich railway history starting with industrial lines in the early 19th century through to today’s high speed international railway.
This illustrated presentation looks at this timeline and the events both interesting and humorous that shaped the local lines.
To
go to our Previous Year's Meeting Archive, please click
here.
Back
to top
Contact
Information
To
contact HVHG, please telephone 01634 718285 or to email
click
here.
To order our Books, please email
highamvillagehistory@gmail.com
Web site
comments or problems?  Email the HVHG Webmaster here.
Please
do look out for posters which are displayed around the village giving details
of our next meeting.
Are you searching for information about Higham and the surrounding area? Researching your family tree? Interested in local history archives and other sources?
Then please look first at our extensive list of weblinks.
Back
to top
Publications
and Books
Our books are on sale in Higham Post Office as follows:
•       Volumes 1 and 2 of Higham in Old Photographs (£2.50 each)
•       Volumes 1 and 2 of A History of Higham (£7.50 each).
To order
copies, please email highamvillagehistory@gmail.com giving your full name, postal address and telephone
number and let us know how
many of each title you would like to order. We will then let you know
costs, including postage and arrange payment details with you.
HVHG raise funds for Kent Air Ambulance through sale of Higham in Old Photograph books. The total amount handed over to date is in excess of ?8.75.
Photograph of
History Group representatives presenting a cheque for £476.25 to KAA Trust, October 2009.
Other
relevant publications:-
"Lillechurch - a thousand years of a farm at Higham in Kent".  (By a private author and available at Medway Archives and Local History Centre, Baggins Book Bazaar, High St, Rochester and Towncentric, Gravesend. Orders by email to iansmilton@hotmail.com.
Price £8.95 plus £1.10 if appropriate.)
A Mosaic History
of Higham, published March 1974.  (Out of print but
is available in Higham Library for perusal.)
Moments
before the Millennium: The Higham Village Appraisal 1997.
(Out
of print, but is available in Higham Library for perusal)
Higham
Priory. A pamphlet produced in the Gravesham Local History series by Christoph
Bull.  (Available
to purchase from Gravesend and Higham Libraries and TownCentric)
michael kors clearance
cheap Manolo Blahnik Shoes
isabel marant factory outlet
nike free 4.0
Canada Goose Jackets Online
Giuseppe Zanotti outlet
christian louboutin shoes online
ray ban glasses
cheap roger vivier shoes
cheap roger vivier shoes
cheap barbour sale
Back
to top
Viking Office Coupons
All
content ©2017 HVHG
10 February 2017EndDate -->
Website hit counter since 3 May 2006
Web
Site Design and Creation by Clive
Stanley Associates
01474 822676
