HFAF
Tel: 02074435268Email: info@hfaf.org
The Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons
A Women's Masonic Fraternity
Founded 27th November 1913
MenuHome
About Us
Lodge venues
Our history
First Impressions
Grand Master’s Message
UGLE Statement
How to become a Freemason
How to join
Why a woman should become a Freemason
FAQs
HFAF University Lodge Scheme
Future Events
News
Archives
Messages from Previous Grand Masters
Charity
Fundraising
Our Charity
Contact Us
Freemasonry for women explained
Welcome to the website of The Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons.
The Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons (HFAF) is a fraternity for women and organised by women. It was founded in 1913 and membership is open to women of any race or religion, who are able to profess a belief in a Supreme Being. Freemasonry is one of the world’s oldest secular fraternal societies. It is concerned with moral and spiritual values. Its members are taught its precepts by a series of ceremonies.
Our Order has many lodges in the UK including the Isle of Man, and now as far as Gretna in Scotland and south to Bournemouth and westwards to the Cotswolds. We have four overseas Lodges: one in Gibraltar, two in Spain and one in Eastern Europe in Bucharest, Romania.
We are very excited about our University Lodges, Surrey Lodge No. 45 and Lodge of Wisdom No.55. Bourne Lodge 37 has decided to join the University Lodge Scheme too. We are also re-opening Centrum Lodge No. 46 later in 2016 to be another University Lodge. We are working in conjunction with United Grand Lodge of England, (masculine Freemasonry) to promote Freemasonry in our Universities.
We are planning to open a further Overseas Lodge in New Delhi in India at the end of 2016. We are working on enquiries from Kingston Jamaica, Edmonton in Alberta,Canada and New York in the United States.
We have tried to provide as much information as possible in our pages, but if you have any questions which haven’t been answered please use our contact form or email us on info@hfaf.org
Members If you are a member you can log into our members area using your username and password.
Username
Password
Remember Me
We hope that you enjoy visiting our website and we hope you will take time to explore all our pages.
Our Charity
The HFAF Charity (Registered Charity No: 1007693) In common with our fellow Masons in the United Grand Lodge of England, it is part of our core beliefs that we give to charity. We ask our... More
Latest News
Read about the latest news and events from the Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons
View All Stories
HFAF Winter Fayre and Open Day
You are invited On Sunday 20th November from 12pm to 3pm we shall once again be opening our doors at 402 Finchley Road, London NW2 2HR not only to promote our Fraternity but also to provide an enjoyable day out…
Read More
Freshers Fairs 2016
In the autumn of 2016 we were delighted to participate in University Freshers Fairs at Bournemouth, Brunel, Chichester, Chelmsford and Guildford. Many enquiries were received and these were followed up by an invitation for coffee and a chat.
Read More
Alpha 54 at the Palace
Our Romanian Lodge Alpha No. 54 held its Installation meeting at a palace due to the closure of their usual venue in Bucharest. The resourceful Simona, 5th WM and Preceptor of the Lodge located and negotiated this wonderful venue once…
Read More
The Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons
A Women's Masonic Fraternity
Founded 27th November 1913
Tel: 02074435268Email: info@hfaf.org
OUR HEADQUARTERS:
402 FINCHLEY ROAD,
CHILDS HILL,
LONDON, NW2 2HR
Nearest Underground Stations:
Finchley Road (Jubilee and Metropolitan Lines)
Golders Green (Northern Line)
Mainline – Finchley Road and Frognal
Buses from stations to HQ – 13 and 82
Copyright © 2017 The Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons. All Rights Reserved.
Just so you know... by browsing our site you are agreeing to the use of cookies. Cookies are tiny bits of data your web browser stores to make your online experience better.
x
