Leicester Jewish Voices - Memories of Leicester in the 1940s and 50s
Jewish Voices
Memories of Leicester in the 1940s and 50s
Contact Us
Welcome
Project
Background
Voices
Book
Display
About Us
Bulletin Board
Leicester Jewish Voices
Memories of the Jewish Community in Leicester during the 1940s and 50s
Throughout
the summer of 2008, 70 people, who formed part of Leicester’s Jewish population back in the 1940s and 50s, delved into
their memories, raided attics and blew the dust from their photograph albums to create a personal, revealing and affectionate community history.
Heritage Lottery Funding
Their task was to contribute to a reminiscence writing project, supported by Heritage Lottery Fund and managed by Writing School Leicester.
Through a mixture of writing and photography workshops, plus oral recordings, emails, phone calls and letters, today’s small Leicester UK Jewish community took the project to its heart.
Funny and Tender Stories
With professional writing, photography and editing support to the Jewish community, this revealing project resulted in a fascinating scrapbook of funny and tender personal stories which, taken together, chart many aspects of Jewish social history of the 1940s and 50s.
Sponsor Found!
We are now hosted at the same site as jewish-leicester.co.uk, though the two are independent.
Touring Display
We
have pop up and banner stands, books and bookmarks to promote the project.
If you would like to host our
display or you would like to receive a complimentary
copy or copies of Jewish Voices, Memories of
Leicester in the 1940s and 50s, please email val.moore@writingschoolleicester.co.uk
Sample Chapters
A full pdf version of the book is available on request. If you would like to download a
sample chapter from the book click here.
Introduction
by
Rosalind Adam
This book is more than a collection of memories. Seventy voices have joined together to provide a unique eye-witness account of the impact that wartime evacuees had on what was a small, sleepy community.
Through a mixture of warmth and humour they have taken us on a journey across two decades of change which ensured that the Leicester Jewish Community would never quite be the same again.
Rosalind Adam
Jewish Voices is a Writing School Leicester project partnering with Leicester's
Jewish communities and supported by
Heritage Lottery Fund
Heritage Lottery Fund grants programme focuses on conservation,
participation in heritage, and opportunities to learn about
heritage.
WelcomeProjectBackgroundVoicesBookDisplayAbout UsBulletin Board
website designed by Snappershack Web Design Tel 0116 2796906
Photography by DPC
