The Kirkby Malhamdale local and family history pages
**These pages use JavaScript which is not enabled in your browser *Please enable JavaScript now*-Instructions**
About Social Bookmarking
Malhamdale
Local History Group
Providing
an extensive range of information for both local and family
historians.
19th January
Members
Evening
16th February
Regional
Datestones
Dr Mike Slater
16th March
AGM
Followed by Wine and Cheese
Non-members
welcome : admission £3
See the the MLHG
Event page for a full listing.
Latest
news :
Your
browser does not support inline frames or is currently
configured not to display inline frames.
(Scroll down for more news)
Support
this site for free with Amazon
Buy any items from
Amazon through our Shop
page and we will receive a small commission on your purchases,
whether they are books, CDs or household goods etc.
Your
browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured
not to display inline frames.
You can purchase
any of Amazon's extensive range of Books,
CDs, DVDs, Software, Household or Garden Goods via our
shop page and Your Amazon purchases will cost you nothing
extra. All the commission we earn from the purchases goes
toward this online resource.
You can also make a small donation toward our upkeep and
expansion via PayPal if you wish.
Join the forum :
View the latest postings on the KMi Discussion Forum on the RSS feed below.
Check out the Forum page to join and contribute your answers or queries. You can also see highlights from our What's New section and the lates postings on the Rootseb mailing lists for Craven and the West Riding.
Free Browser Toolbar : We have created a useful addition to your browser, packed full of great weblinks for all family and local historians.
It is easy to install and uninstall, and it works with Internet Explorer, Safari or Firefox, on any computer running Windows, Mac OSX or Linux OS.
Offering instant access to many of the pages on this site, including searches, as well as to a wide range of resources on the web, covering topics such as building and landscape history, house history, and all the general family history and local history resources. This browser add-on is designed to make life easier and introduce you to some sites you may never have come across.
There is no Adware or Spyware and you have full control of the toolbar, including an easy uninstall procedure.
We hope you will give it a try, because we are sure you will find it useful. Click the button above to go to the download page. Firefox users should check the help page if they don't know how to allow additions to be installed.
It is free to download and use, but if you find it very useful, a small donation would be appreciated.
Suggestions for further additions to the links on the toolbar are welcome.
Free Genealogy Record Forms for your Filofax®
If you don't own a laptop, or want something more compact to carry around, organise your family history record keeping in a compact Filofax style binder with our free family history record sheet masters.
Visit our Family History Search Page to find some useful resources for tracing your Malhamdale ancestors.
Try our Free Web Browser Toolbar : Designed for Local and Family Historians
KirkbyMalham
Weather
Weather Forecast | Weather Maps | Weather Radar
Use the links above to view a more detailed forecast.
Copyright and Conditions of Use Statement
The content of this website is copyright and it requires a web browser with Javascript enabled and a 1024x768 or higher resolution monitor to access all the features. We recommend the Firefox
or Safari web browsers
which are free and available in both Windows & Mac OSX versions.
David Tippey (1951 - 2011)
A tribute to the creator of this website
Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames.
(Scroll down for more)
Views of Malhamdale in old postcards
To enjoy our postcard gallery you may need the free Flash browser plug-in from Adobe
Malhamdale Local History Group If you can't get to the meetings, then sample a multimedia slide show of the talk Kirkby Malham and the West Dereham Connection given by Mike Spence in June 2008. (Broadband connection advised)
The group also has a dedicated area on this website where you can find general information about its activities and projects, which include: Education in Malhamdale; Malhamdale at War; the history of Malhamdale Show, Walter Morrison - A man of many parts.
Discussion Forum
Contact Us with your Comments or Questions via our Discussion Forum and we will do our best to help.
The forum has an RSS feed (What
is an RSS feed?) so that you can subscribe for news of
the latest topics direct to your PC. There are plenty of free
RSS readers available and most modern web browsers allow you
to access RSS feeds ie. the Live Bookmarks feature on FireFox,
which will ask you if you want to subscribe when you visit
an RSS feed page. RSS links usually appear with this symbol
which will take you to our Forum feed. Click the link to view
the feed or drag it to your RSS reader.
You can see this RSS feed on the right, displayed in our free downloadable Widget (Win & Mac) which you can use if you don't already have an RSS reader program installed. The widget also provides
feeds with content from the What's New page
so that you can really keep up-to-date with changes on the site, and it also offers a feed from the Rootsweb mailing list ENG-YKS-CRAVEN.
Read our introduction to RSS
feeds and how to access them and feel free to join in
and leave your comments or questions on the Forum, where you
may well find someone with just the information you are looking
for.
What you will find here: We offer an extensive range
of information of interest to local and family historians, plus lots of links to other relevant sites too.
Information is divided into groups under the local township names for easy navigation. Just select the Village that interests you from the navigation buttons and see what is available.
The site is based on the historic ecclesiastical Parish of Kirkby in Malhamdale, but we also have some information on other nearby townships that fit socially and geographically within the area (Coniston Cold, Eshton, Winterburn and Bordley).
Don't forget to look at the Malhamdale page for more general information about the area.
The dedicated Malhamdale Local History Group section contains an interesting variety of projects for you to look at, plus full information about the group's activities.
Quick Search will rapidly find references to family names or places, with advanced search options available on the main Search page, however it doesn't search our Malhamdale People Finder database or the Forum, so these need to be searched separately.
New pages and more information are being added frequently, so remember to check the What's New page or subscribe to our RSS feed.
If you have any queries or comments visit our Forum and leave us a message.
Wanted New material
We are always interested in more Memories, Photographs, Maps, Deeds, Documents, Family Trees and other items relating to the area.
Don't worry, you don't have to create the actual
web pages, the webmaster will sort out your text and illustrations
into a web article, so contact our Webmaster
to discuss your ideas. We also need more volunteers to transcribe
material to go on the website. If you feel you can help please
get in touch.
Malham, Mallam, Malum, Maulm, Mawm, Malam, Mallum, Moor, Moore, More, Kirkby, Kirby, Mallamdale, Mallumdale, Malhamdale, Malham-Dale, Kirkby-in-Malham-Dale, Kirkby-Malham-Dale, Kirby-in-Malham-Dale, Kirby-Malham-Dale, Hanlith, Hanlyth, Scosthrop, Scosthorpe, Skosthrop, Airton, Ayrton, Airtown, Calton, Carlton, Craven, Yorkshire, Otterburn, Otter Burn, Bellbusk, Bell Busk, Conistone Cold, Coniston Cold, Bordley, Bordly, Boardly, Boardley, Winterburn, Winter Burn, History, Local, ancestors, ancestry, Family, Genealogy, Geneology, Buildings, People, Maps, Census, Scawthorpe, Scothorpe, Scorthorp, Wills, Tax, Eshton, Asheton
KirkbyMalham.info is not responsible for the content of external websites. External links are generally indicated by the
symbol.
