Home - Latin American House
Nursery
Nursery Spanish for Children (Saturday School) What's on nursery
Legal and Social Advice
Legal and Social Advice Immigration Law Benefits
Employment Law
Family Law What's on Legal & Social Advice
Community Learning
Community Learning
Computer Classes English Classes What's on Community Learning Centre
Culture
Culture Salón Cultural Ventana Latina - Online Cultural Magazine What's on Culture
Other Projects
About Us
About Us Media Annual Reports
Contact Us
"Mi casa es tu casa"
Language:
Español
Português
English
Menchú Nursery
English/Spanish education
Legal and Social Advice
Free advice on a range of matters
Learning Centre
Improve your IT skills
‹
›
About Us
Latin American House was founded in 1983 and is a registered charity that aims to provide a space and support for Latin Americans, Spanish and Portuguese speakers in London and other communities in the local area.We offer legal and social advice in relation to benefits, immigration, family, housing, and employment law, as well as opportunities to acquire life-long skills and a place to meet people, share ideas and enjoy the rich culture of Latin America.
Menchú Nursery
A bilingual Spanish-English nursery for children aged 2 to 5 years old that offers high quality childcare in a homely and welcoming environment. We are Ofsted registered and follow the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) framework.
We also offer a Saturday School for children aged 4-11 during school term time.
Legal & Social Advice
Latin American House's Legal and Social Advice Service (LESAS) provides FREE legal advice in relation to immigration, benefits, housing, family and employment law matters.
Our immigration law advice and casework service is currently funded by Trust for London. All our other advice services are provided by pro-bono solicitors, barristers and advisors.
Community Learning Centre
Offering a number of free Computer, IT, and Technology courses along with beginner and intermediate English classes to support the community in their exploration of further education and employment opportunities.
Cultural Activities
The Salón Cultural is a new forum hosted by Latin American House to encourage thought-provoking, critical conversations about Latin American culture. It covers a wide range of areas from literature, the arts and cinema, to politics, philosophy and history.
Ventana Latina (VL) is Latin American House's Spanish language online cultural magazine. It focuses on Latin American arts and culture in the United Kingdom and beyond.
OPENING TIMES
Our office is open to the public for general enquiries from Monday to Thursday.Morning: From 10am to 2pm.Evening: From 3pm to 6pm *
The Menchú Nursery is open from Monday to Friday from 8am  to 6pm.
*Please note that for certain appointments and courses, different times may apply.
What’s on
Salón Cultural presents the Argentinian guitarist: Darío Acosta Teich
Tuesday 21st.February, 7pm. Free entry.
Read more...
Immigration Law Advice Service for Portuguese Speakers
We have appointments available for Saturday 18th February 2017.
Read more...
Advice on Family Law
We have appointments available for February.
Read more...
Spanish Saturday School: enrolment for January 2017 now open
Classes begin: 7th  January 2017, from 10am to 1pm. We have places available!
Read more...
CV Clinic and Mock Interviews
Come and see us for help with making job applications and preparing for interviews.
Read more...
Check the latest events in LAH here
Get Involved
Spaces to Hire
Volunteer With Us
Donate
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Job Vacancy
Copyright © 2017 Latin American House. All Rights Reserved. Registered charity no. 1127253 | Company no. 6720498
10 Kingsgate Place, London NW6 4TA, United Kingdom. Tel. 020 7372 8653 Fax 020 7372 5650
Follow via FacebookFollow via TwitterFollow via Youtube
