MKCDC at Bradwell Abbey
Facebook   Twitter
Home
About us
Bradwell Abbey
Education & lectures
Archive & library
Weddings & venue hire
Events
Shop
Milton Keynes
City Discovery Centre
Bradwell Abbey, Alston
Drive, Milton Keynes
MK13 9AP
Tel: +44[0]1908 227229
information@mkcdc.org.uk
Contact us
Director
Noël James
director@mkcdc.org.uk
Business Development Manager
Lynne Dawson
Weddings and room hire
information@mkcdc.org.uk
Education Officer
Terrie Howey
Educational visits
education@mkcdc.org.uk
Archivist and Librarian
Catherine McIntyre
Archive and image collection
library@mkcdc.org.uk
Heritage Partners
Bletchley Park Trust
Cowper and Newton Museum
Living Archive
Milton Keynes Council
Milton Keynes Museum
Sandford
Sandford Awards for Heritage Education
2004, 2009 & 2015
What is Milton Keynes City Discovery Centre?
Milton Keynes City Discovery Centre informs visitors about urban geography and new city planning - as well as the historical and natural heritage of Milton Keynes. Since 1992 Milton Keynes City Discovery Centre has been based at the beautiful and important medieval Scheduled Ancient Monument site of Bradwell Abbey in Milton Keynes.
Education
We offer a range of experiential learning sessions tailored to primary and secondary curriculums in geography and history, and beyond. Key to MKCDC's success is our highly interactive approach - by taking learning out of the classroom: ideas and concepts are turned into experiences that are memorable, engaging and enlightening.
For more information about our programme, please contact Terrie Howey, our Education Officer.
Lectures and tours
We conduct a variety of higher education and professional lectures and tours investigating urban development, with a focus on MK as the most successful New Town in the UK. Topics include:
urbanisation, master planning,environment,sustainability,transport,heritage
and more. The lectures and site tours can be adapted to clients' requirements.
Archive and library
The archive records the fascinating story of the development of the new city of Milton Keynes, and also a wealth of pre- new town history.
Many important items have been preserved in our collections - books, photographs, maps, reports, posters, plans and periodicals. There are also a
variety of contemporary research materials available. Please note that visits are by appointment.
To book an appointment, please contact Catherine McIntyre, our Archivist.
Weddings, parties and room hire
Bradwell Abbey offers a fantastic choice of venues and locations for your special day or business event. The beautiful medieval Cruck Barn or meetings rooms in a contemporary new building surrounded by five acres of open parkland create an atmospheric, green and tranquil setting.
For more information, please contact Lynne Dawson, our Business Development Manager.
Events
Site tours are held the first Sunday of each month from now until October. Other events include our Archaeology Week in July,
the Medieval Fair in September and Angels at the Abbey in December.
Demonstrating medieval surgery
© MKCDC 2017 Registered charity GB 297397
Milton Keynes City Discovery Centre, Bradwell Abbey, Alston Drive,
Milton Keynes MK13 9AP
Tel: +44[0]1908 227229 Email:
information@mkcdc.org.uk
