National Federation of Cypriots in the UK
National Federation of Cypriots in the UK
Working for a Free, United Cyprus
Home
Who we areAbout us
Aims
President
Executive Committee & Secretariat
Past Presidents
The British Cypriot Community
Like us on Facebook!
NewsLatest News
News Archive
EventsUpcoming Events
Events Archive
Publications2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
President's Speeches
Reference Documents
Media ResourcesPress Enquiries
Photo Gallery
Video Gallery
Members
Suggestions Box
Links
Contact us
Sitemap
Home
Latest News
All Party Parliamentary Group visits Cyprus to express support for ongoing negotiations
UK Cypriot and Jewish Diasporas reiterate bonds of cooperation at joint event
Cyprus negotiations update: Cautious optimism coming out of Geneva, however crucial issues still to be resolved
British Cypriots protest against illegal regime in occupied Cyprus
President Anastasiades briefs UK Cypriot community on latest developments on the Cyprus issue
UK Cypriots demand the reunification of Cyprus and an end to Turkey's injustices in Cyprus
View all...
Subscribe to our RSS News
News & Events
Supporters Network
Name /Surname
E-mail Address
All Party Parliamentary Group visits Cyprus to express support for ongoing negotiations
A cross-party delegation from the All Party Parliamentary Group for Cyprus recently visited Cyprus to express the support of the British Parliament for the ongoing negotiations to reunite the island and its people.The delegation was led by APPG Chairman, Sir Roger Gale MP and included Rt Hon Theresa Villiers MP, David Burrowes MP, Stephen Hepburn MP, Steven Paterson MP, Matthew Offord MP and Baroness Massey. The delegation was accompanied by Federation President, Christos Karaolis.
Read more...
UK Cypriot and Jewish Diasporas reiterate bonds of cooperation at joint event
The close cooperation between Cyprus and Israel was highlighted on Thursday evening during an event organised in London by the Cyprus High Commission and the Embassy of Israel, with the support of the National Federation of Cypriots in the UK and The Board of Deputies of British Jews.The event, hosted at The Hellenic Centre, featured a presentation about the British internment camps for Jewish refugees set up in Cyprus at the end of the Second World War. The presentation was made by Elianna Hadjisavvas, a Ph.D candidate in Modern History at The University of Birmingham.
Read more...
Video Gallery
More videos »
More videos »
Rally for Cyprus 2011 - P3 Rally Greek extractsRally for Cyprus 2011 - P1 Demonstration and MarchRally for Cyprus 2011 - P2 Rally English extractsRally for Cyprus 2009 - Peter Droussiotis speech -...
Photo Gallery
More pictures >>
Future Meetings & Events
View all...
© 2008 National Federation of Cypriots in the UK.
Designed & Developed by Presencia Creative Media. Powered by WebPresence ™
