North Pennines – Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty
Contact us | FAQ's | Site map
North PenninesArea of Outstanding Natural Beauty
Welcome to the North PenninesThis is one of England’s most special places – a stunning landscape of open heather moors and peatlands, attractive dales and hay meadows, tumbling upland rivers, wonderful woods, welcoming communities, intriguing imprints of a mining and industrial past, distinctive birds, animals and plants and much, much more. In recognition of its special qualities the area has been designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB). The North Pennines is also a UNESCO Global Geopark – highlighting its globally important Earth heritage.
Visit the Explore North Pennines portal to discover the amazing range of activities available across the AONB. At the heart of this site is an interactive map which will allow you to search by activity, interest and location.
North Pennines Latest
Partnership Working Builds Firm FoundationsTHE North Pennines AONB Partnership has teamed up with a regional charity that supports adults and young people by providing them with practical opportunities to make a better life for … [Read More...]
A Unique View of North Pennines PeatlandPartnership project assess the peat damage in Teesdale
An exciting project that utilises the latest drone technology is helping to revitalise and restore damaged areas of land in Teesdale.
The … [Read More...]
Bee FriendlySchoolchildren across Teesdale are as busy as bees learning about nectar thanks to a project being run by the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Natural Partnership.
Bee Friendly, which has been made … [Read More...]
About us
Where is the North Pennines
The AONB Partnership
Management Plan 2014-2019
Corporate support
The Pendlebury Award
The environment
Jobs
Volunteering
European and Global Geopark
Other AONBs
Exploring
North Pennines Electric Bike Hire Network
Being green
Special qualities
Area guides
Where to stay
Getting here and getting around
Attractions
Dark Skies
Shows and fairs
Outdoor activities
Buy local
Information centres
Codes of conduct
Prevent moorland fires
Bowlees Visitor Centre
Outdoor learning and education at Bowlees
Bowlees Visitor Centre Events
Bowlees Discovery Club
Our work
Pennine Way People
LiDAR Landscapes
Hay Time – North Pennines
Peatland Programme
Raising the Standard
Geodiversity
Altogether Archaeology
WildWatch
Heritage Skills
Living North Pennines
Nectarworks
High Nature Value farming
Allen Valleys Landscape Partnership
Dark Skies
Tourism
Cold-blooded and Spineless
OREsome
Events
News
News updates
Publications
Friends of the North Pennines
Sign up to our newsletter
Sign up
Also find us on:
Accessibility | Legal Information | Links policy
