Pennine Camphill Community :: Camphill Centre and Hands-On Learning College
skip to navigation :: change style to default ::
change style to high contrast
Favorite Tweets by @Penniner
Pennine  is an independent specialist college providing
for young people who have learning difficulties. Information on how to apply
are on our Student
Applications page, either phone Admissions on 01924 255281 or e-mail.
Preparing
for Adulthood and providing a Local Offer are key themes in Pennine. We are
often described as a college without classrooms where learning takes place through
hands on learning. Ofsted have described our college as Good with students gaining outstanding practical
skills.
Our Care Quality Commission report. Although this just refers to our residential side we aim to carry those same high standards across all we do at Pennine. The report highlights Pennine as Good across all areas.
Although
most of our students are day students Pennine offers an extended college
programme for full residential and weekly boarding options.
Pennine is
in Wakefield, West Yorkshire. We are within easy reach from both the M1 and M62. We are accessible for day students from Wakefield, Barnsley, Doncaster, Kirklees and south Leeds. Our site covers 58-acres, including farmland and horse riding facilities. We
have good access to public transport and
local amenities.
To find out more about us use the links above and to the left to navigate around the site. Why not follow us on facebook. Over a 1000 people viewed our video of newborn piglets!
There are a number of videos on the site which give a good flavour of Pennine. Our Craft Hub, Land Based Learning, Life in the Community and Volunteering.
Staff Vacancies and Volunteering
We are currently advertising for an HR Administrator and House Guardian.
We are seeking a volunteer to help on our farm for 12 month starting mid August. There are also other opportunities for short- or long-term volunteering at Pennine Camphill Community
to match different interests and skills. Please contact us if you have any questions or would like to know more.
Last updated on 06/12/16
Homepage
Student Applications
Pennine Local Offer
College Term Dates
News
Directions to Pennine
Downloads
Fundraising
Vacancies
Accessibility
Layout
Default Style
High Contrast
HomeCommunityCollegeVolunteeringAssociatesNewsContactAccessibility
© 2007–2016 Pennine Camphill Community — All Rights reserved.
Registered Charity No. 274192. Company No. 1294923. A Member of the Association of Camphill Communities.
Site Design and Hosting by Make Hay.
