Pride In Barry a voluntary non-political organisation to promote civic pride in the Town of Barry South Wales UK
Home
About Us
Awards       Sponsors
Nominations
Presentations
Resources
Contact Us
Pride
In Barry
Established in 1994
Paul Haley, Chairman of Pride In Barry: “ Pride
In Barry is an association of voluntary organisations, local authorities
and others who have combined together to strive to improve the
local environment.The purpose of Pride In Barry
is to increase civic awareness, promote environmental improvement
and enhancement, and to generate a pride in the town. We believe
that the Town of Barry is special: We want to keep it special
for present and future generations."
Barry is proud to be the
largest Town in Wales
Ambassador of the Year 2006
Andrew Dakin
Blue Plaque 2009
Crystal Cut Glass Ambassador Awards
Welcome,
This website has been designed to provide
some information about ourselves, to
share our ideas and schemes, and to encourage wider civic participation
amongst those who were born and raised in, or who now live in,
or who have an association with our wonderful Town of Barry -
Barrians all!
Be part of what is happening, and let us
know who you are and how you can help.
Don't forget to check out our sister website
www.barrywales.co.uk
and see updated local photo images of Barry today and in the past.
Pride
In Barry is delighted to announce the establishment of its' Blue
Plaque Scheme.
Many men and women of distinction have either been born in
Barry, or have spent a significant part of their lives here. We
are extremely proud to acknowledge 10 people and it is our intention
to affix Blue Plaques to houses associated with these people.
The public have nominated worthy individuals
of distinction who fit the criteria;
must have been born in Barry, educated in
Barry or at least spent a significant part of their lives in Barry
should not still be living
must be persons of distinction who are regarded
as eminent by their peers and of whom Barry can be proud
must be reasonably well known
A Ceremony took place on Saturday 21st November
2009 to announce the first 10 commemorative Blue Plaques to invited
guests which included relatives of those commemorated, as well
as current homeowners.
For details, please click this link to visit
the Blue Plaque Page
Pride In Barry would welcome further sponsorship
towards installing further Blue Plaques in 2010.
Pride
in Barry Strategy 2012
Paul Haley Presentation
to the National Asembly on Proper Funding for Barry Regeneration
on 9th October 2007
Andrew Dakin success
Pride In Barry Ambassador Andrew
Dakin at Rail Launch
Barry Waterfront Land
Opportunities
Be an Ambassador
Scafftag sponsors
Youth Ambassador Award
Glamorgan Gem sponsors
Business Ambassador Award
Newydd Housing Association sponsors
Community Ambassador Award
Dilys Colbourne
MBE is recognised as Pride In Barry Ambassador
Commonwealth
Games Gold Medallist Swimmer DAVID DAVIES becomes Barry's first-ever
Ambassador Click here for pictures and full story
Do you promote the Town and might be
eligible for an Award? Or, would you rather recognise and encourage
others? Want to know more about opportunities to sponsor these
prestigious Awards?
Full details of the Awards, and sponsorship
opportunities are available on this website.
Want to know more, then please contact
us.
Latest News.....
Pride In Barry announces the first 10 commemorative Blue Plaques
on 21st November 2009 at a celebration evening. A booklet has
been produced which outlines the achievements of the individuals.
DVD's of the event are available for 10 Pounds, which will go
towards further Blue Plaque
Home
About Us
Awards       Sponsors
Nominations      Presentations
Resources      Contact
Us
Copyright © 2006 Pride In Barry. All rights reserved.
