Home - Trivallis
Accessibility
Site map
Contrast
Normal contrast
Soft contrast
High contrast
Search the Trivallis website
Search
Advanced options
Home
Home
Contact Trivallis
Our homes
Our services
Our communities
Working with us
I want to...
Pay my rent
Request a repair
Apply for a home
Contact Trivallis
Received a rent increase letter?
Find out answers to your questions
Click here
More than a landlord
/more-than-a-landlord
Saving you money this winter
Read more
Previous
Pause
Next
News
Helping heroes find homes
Posted on 9 Feb 2017
A valuable partnership between Trivallis and the City of Cardiff Council is providing sustainable homes for Armed Forces leavers, veterans and families.
The development of 152 properties is owned by Trivallis who have been working with Cardiff City Council, Seraph Property Management and the Welsh Veterans Partnership to allocate at least 15 per cent of the homes to veterans registered on the C...
Read more on Helping heroes find homes…
Ceriann's in safe hands with her engineer
Posted on 7 Feb 2017
Mum-of- two Ceriann Fenley from Cilfynydd feels safe and warm this winter thanks to her free gas safety check by a Trivallis engineer.
Each year our engineers visit all 10,000 Trivallis homes to make sure they’re safe for tenants. As your landlord we have a legal obligation to service your gas boiler and check that your other gas appliances are in good condition. We’ll arrange a fre...
Read more on Ceriann's in safe hands with h…
Tables have turned for Canolfan Pentre
Posted on 1 Feb 2017
At the beginning of the year, Pentre's community centre was at risk of closing its doors to the community for the last time.
Buffy (Elizabeth Williams, pictured above), chair of the Canolfan Pentre committee, said: “There was a chance that the centre would close completely, which would be devastating for the community. We are already short on places to go to get together with our neig...
Read more on Tables have turned for Canolfa…
Older news stories
Back to top of page
Print this page
Email this page
Site map
Tweets by WeAreTrivallis
Training & volunteering
At Trivallis we support people to become more employable through education, training and work experience.
Universal Credit
The UK Government is changing the way people receive their benefits. Universal Credit is the name of one monthly payment that is paid directly into your bank account once a month.
Sheltered housing investment
We want to make sure our complexes reach the same high standard as our service. That’s why we announced that Trivallis’ sheltered housing complexes would receive the biggest investment and refurbishment they have had in more than 30 years.
Trivallis logo
Trivallis
© 2017
Powered by VerseOne Technologies Ltd
