Rathayatra - Rathayatra UK
Rathayatra
DONATE HERE >
A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada
Why chant Hare Krishna
London Rathayatra
Getting There
Accommodation
Messages of Support
T Sq Webcams
History
News
About
Meaning of Rathayatra
History of Rathayatra
History of Jagannatha Worship
FAQs
Patrons
Contact
Media & Press
London
About
Meaning of Rathayatra
History of Rathayatra
History of Jagannatha Worship
A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada
News
ISKCON Celebrates 50 Years
Festival Invitation and Snana Yatra opportunities
Are there rules in the kirtan
London Rathayatra Flyer 2016
Rathayatra Video Overview
Donate
Contact
‘Rathayatra’ is celebrated all over the world.
Rathayatra originates from Jagannatha Puri in Orissa on India’s east coast. It dates back to pre-historic times. Featuring three huge wooden carts, each with a 40ft tall, brightly coloured canopy. The carts are pulled by hand in a grand procession.
London Rathayatra. Photo: Maha Das
There is singing, chanting and dancing to rhythmical drums and cymbals. The procession ends with a festival and a delicious vegetarian ‘prasadam’ feast – served free of charge.Anyone can join in the festival. It is a fully inclusive event. Learn more about Rathayatra >
Brought west by Srila Prabhupada.
Rathayatra was introduced to the west in 1967 in San Fransisco by His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada and his first American disciples. His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami is the founder-acarya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness.
Rathayatra – the Lord’s Divine Festival.
Rathayatra is a non-sectarian celebration. It is attended by people from all faiths and is universal in its scope.
The smiling figures of ‘Jagannatha’, ‘Subhadra’ and ‘Balarama’ ride on the three wooden carts. Each cart is accompanied by a chanting party and a full crew of priests, drivers, attendants and stewards.
Left to right: Baladeva, Subhadra, Jagannatha.
The Deities identity and role in the festival are briefly explained by His Holiness Visnujana Swami speaking in 1975 in this video >
The Hare Krishna ‘maha-mantra’.
Throughout the entire Rathayatra festival there is constant singing and chanting of the maha-mantra – ‘the great mantra for deliverance’.
If you’ve not heard the chanting before then why not take a moment to listen to one of the audio files on this page. They are recordings from previous festivals.
More on why chant Hare Krishna >
Chanting Hare Krishna with the devotees can lead to high levels of happiness.
Dancing while chanting is also very popular and can be enjoyed by one and all.
The kind Lord is for everyone.
“The common man, if he has no time to worship the Lord, may at least engage his hands for a few seconds in washing or sweeping the Lord’s temple.
Mahäräja Pratäparudra, the greatly powerful king of Orissa, was always very busy with heavy state responsibilities, yet he made it a point to sweep the temple of Lord Jagannätha at Puri once a year during the festival of the Lord.
The idea is that however important a man one may be he must accept the supremacy of the Supreme Lord. This God consciousness will help a man even in his material prosperity.
Mahäräja Pratäparudra’s subordination before Lord Jagannätha made him a powerful king, so much so that even the great Pathan in his time could not enter into Orissa on account of the powerful Mahäräja Pratäparudra.
And at last Mahäräja Pratäparudra was graced by Lord Sri Caitanya on the very grounds of his acceptance of subordination to the Lord of the universe.
So even though a rich man’s wife has glittering bangles made of gold on her hands, she must engage herself in rendering service to the Lord.”
Srimad-Bhagavatam Canto 2 Chapter 3 Verse 21 – Purport His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada.
Three Rathayatra carts on the North Terrace, Trafalgar Square, London. Photo: Maha Das
Join us.
Follow London Rathayatra on Facebook – Facebook.com/londonrathayatra >
Join the Rathayatra Mailing List.
Keep up to date with all the latest news, photos, links and interesting transcendental nectar.
Subscribe to our mailing list
Jagannatha Swami Nayana Patha Gami
Nayana Patha Gami Bhavatu Me
OM TAT SAT
UK and European Rathayatra Dates in 2017
TBC - London
More dates added as we get them.
Latest News
London Rathayatra 2017 – date to be confirmed
London Rathayatra 2016 Live Feed
ISKCON Celebrates 50 Years
Festival Invitation and Snana Yatra opportunities
Are there rules in the kirtan
London Rathayatra Flyer 2016
Rathayatra Video Overview
Visual History of London Rathayatra
Please sign up with the mailing list here:
Subscribe to our mailing list
Sri Jagannathastam HG Gaurangi Devi Dasi - 1999
Rathayatra Kirtans MP3 HG Sri Prahlada Dasa - 1994
HG Kripamoya Dasa - 1993
HH Indradyumna Swami - 1994
Learn More
Practical transcendental knowledge from the master. All you need to know about matter, spirit, the creator, the soul and more. Take a look at the Bhagavad-gita As It Is by His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada.
Hear about Lord Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in the Chaitanya Caritamrta Madhya 13. His pastimes took place at the Ratha Yatra in Jagannatha Puri 500 years ago.
ISKCON Founder-Acarya His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada
Behind the Website Rathayatra UK website is run and maintained by the London Rathayatra Festival Committee on behalf of ISKCON London. Site admin is Parama Karuna das. Contact via email info@rathayatra.co.uk.
Website InformationPrivacy Policy
Terms of Use
ISKCON Websites
Mayapur TV
ISKCON UK
Bhaktivedanta Manor
ISKCON London
Krishna.com
Bhaktivedanta Book Trust
ISKCON News
Sri Maypura
Deity Worship
ISKCON Brighton
ISKCON Wales
Dandavats
ISKCON Paris
ISKCON Amsterdam
ISKCON Germany - Prahlada Nrsimha
ISKCON Germany - Radha Madhan Mohan
Search Rathayatra UK
Search for:
· © 2017 Rathayatra UK · Designed by Press Customizr · Powered by
·Back to top
