RR - Vegan Presents & Cosmetics 2017
Search for:
Menu
Home
About
Contact us
Privacy Policy
Search
RR – Vegan Presents & Cosmetics 2017
Vegan Presents in the New Year
Well Christmas is over and all those lovely Vegan Presents that are available in the High Street shops are no longer available. However, my sisters birthday is in January and guess what …. yes she is a vegan too. What is more is it’s not just any birthday she is the grand old age of 50. So I’m a little stumped on what I can get her. I’m thinking on the theme of “Live begins at 50” and need to come up with that something just a little bit special and of course different.
Having seen that there isn’t much left in the shops I’ve started doing some internet trawling to find this special gift. A google search for vegan gifts does the trick and I’m confronted with an eclectic array of websites that offer me the perfect gift. Well that’s what they claim anyway! With the theme of being 50 I am led to the cosmetic range of gifts and find that there are numerous creams and potions which are vegan friendly and offer me some definite food for though.
Cosmetic Vegan Presents for the Over 50s
Well I finally settled on getting some anti-ageing beauty products and was mesmerised by the range of products available which promised to reduce wrinkles, crows feet and sun spots. But I’m left wondering if they really work. Do they do all they claim to do? Hence I start looking though customer reviews to find out what the consumers think about these products. Lo and behold, I was right many of these products have a really low success rates with a great number of them not even achieving one star ratings.
I eventually land on one company Mychelle Dermaceuticals which consumers give top ratings and claim that they really work, reducing the wrinkles and adding a lovely tone to the skin. What is more all their products are totally cruelty-free and excellent as vegan presents. Products were all made with plant derivative ingredients and were gluten free with no toxic ingredients such as petroleum or artificial colourings.
There is a good range of products and I eventually settled on getting some wrinkle spot cream which was promoted as a treatment that would stimulate the collagen in the skin and help the skin to gain elasticity. It also boasted that it’s combination of ingredients were able to reduce how deep your wrinkles are nearly 50% when you use it twice daily for over a month.
I also bought some retinal serum which was for sensitive skin. The product had a chemical called Ceramide 3 in it which I had heard of before as being great at reducing redness and helping with collagen regrowth.
Vegan Cosmetics in My Makeup Bag
As you will be aware by now I will not use any cosmetics that have been tested on animals or have any ingredients which are derived from animals. I always buy cruelty free Vegan Cosmetics. However in the early days when I first became vegan I found it very difficult to find out what products were vegan friendly and it was very time consuming going into all the details about the product source and ingredients. So I thought as a guide for those new vegans out there, I’d write a blog on what I use and what I always keep in my make-up bag.
When sourcing my products I firstly look for organic or natural products as this tells me that they are made from ingredients which are not toxic or from anything that can harm my skin. This tends to narrow down my search and then I secondly ensure that they are free from animal testing or animal derivatives. The reason I do it this way is that vegan products will always be natural however natural products are not always vegan friendly.
Essential Vegan Cosmetics
My first essential vegan cosmetics product is of course the Vapourly Organic concealer which helps to reduce the look of the dark bags under my eyes and also covers up little imperfections in the skin such as spots. I then have a liquid foundation which is made by Zap Organic, it has a silky finish which I like as it further covers any blemishes and an added bonus is that it is long lasting. I then finish off with a mineral blusher made by Zest Beauty and I use a pale pink blush tone.
When it comes to the eyes then I love using a liquid eye liner which does take a bit of getting used to but with practice it does have a great effect. I purchase mine from Superday online. I use minimal eye shadow but I do like a little so I use a light cream which comes in two tones that blend well on the eyelid and are not to heavy from Cameo cosmetics. The to finish my eyes off I use a full volume waterproof mascara by Cameo cosmetics. It is great for making the lashes look thicker and longer and being waterproof it tends to last most of the day.
© 2017					RR – Vegan Presents & Cosmetics 2017					All rights reserved.
