Budget for financial year 2016 to 2017 | Budget | Birmingham City Council
Skip to content
Skip to main navigation
Birmingham City Council
Sign in / Register
Visited pages
Council services
Search this site
Search
You are here:
Home
Your council
Performance and finance
Council budget
Budget
Budget
In this section
You are here:Budget for financial year 2016 to 2017
Download previous financial year budgets
Budget for financial year 2016 to 2017
Each year the council plans its spending and income around its aims, priorities and resources (which include the setting of council tax).
A city with 2020 vision
With a developing vision for how the council will look in the year 2020, we are transforming what we do and how we do it. We need to respond to the changing needs of citizens and adapt to not having the money to do all of the things we did before.
The vision for your future council is based on the ideals of prosperity, fairness and democracy. We aim to have a strong economy, safety and opportunity for all children, a great future for young people, thriving local communities, a healthy and happy population, and a modern council.
We will continue to keep our children’s and education improvements on track, and successfully conclude the work set for us by the Birmingham Independent Improvement Panel.
The council will become more strategic, and much smaller as we also gain new powers devolved from central government to drive economic growth, investment and the reform of public services.
How we’re making the changes
We’ve adopted a new approach. We’ve looked at how we can meet the needs of citizens, through providing services ourselves but also with a renewed focus on how we can work with partners to achieve shared aims. Our role, with other civic and civil leaders, is to agree the vision for Birmingham and lead the city as a joint enterprise.
Our plan for change is divided into six key themes which aim to better meet citizens’ needs, make substantial savings and improve our performance. They are:
Prevent family breakdown – seeking to support disadvantaged families through a range of interventions so their children can thrive.
Maximise the independence of adults – with Birmingham a city where getting older is a positive experience.
Sustainable neighbourhoods – creating an environment which is more sustainable, reduces costs and is better for the health and wellbeing of residents.
Economic growth and jobs – economic development and support for job creation, skills training and sustainable business growth can impact greatly on the prosperity and wellbeing of the city.
Changes to the workforce – our direct workforce will be smaller reflecting that outcomes and services will be delivered through new models where staff will not necessarily be directly employed by the council.
Council-wide – we will continue to work more efficiently, redesigning our services so they are as lean as possible.
This is a council on a journey of change and improvement. By working together in partnership, we know that this city will rise to all the challenges we face, and secure a great future for all its citizens.
Council tax
There has been a rise of 1.99 per cent in the city council’s base element of the council tax for 2016–17. In addition – in recognition of particular pressures on adult social care – there has been a further 2 per cent rise for the Adult Social Care Precept, which will contribute towards increasing adult social care costs. This, in total, is a rise of 3.99 per cent.
Download budget 2016 to 2017 documents, and details of 2016 to 2017 council tax help and information booklet.
Next page
Download previous financial year budgets
Council budget
Budget
Budget consultation 2017+
Related information
Downloads
Services
Birmingham City Council
Close Visited pages
Visited pages
The following links are virtual breadcrumbs marking the 9 most recent pages you have visited on birmingham.gov.uk. If you want to remember a specific page forever click the pin in the top right corner and we will be sure not to replace it. Hide this message.
Close Visited pages
Visited pages
{{ organisationName }}
Close Council Services
Council Services
About Birmingham
Adult social care
Benefits and support
Births, deaths and ceremonies
Business and licensing
Children and families
Council tax
Environment
Housing
Parks, sport and leisure
Planning and development
Roads, travel and parking
Schools and learning
Things to do
Waste and recycling
Your council
Can’t find the service you are looking for?
A full list of services can be found on our A–Z listings page.
Close Council Services
Council Services
Social Links
Facebook
Instagram
Google Plus
RSS
Twitter
Sign up for email updates
© Birmingham City Council
About Us
Accessibility
Contact
Cookies
Jobs
Languages
Suppliers
Powered by Jadu Continuum.
Handcrafted by Spacecraft.
Birmingham City Council
Back to the top
Homepage
What’s new
Site map
Search facility
Frequently asked questions
Help
Contact details
Terms & privacy
Feedback
Accessibility
Tell us what you think about our site...
