St Gregory's Foundation | Helping vulnerable children and families in Russia and the former USSR
Skip to content
St Gregory's Foundation
Helping vulnerable children and families in Russia and the former USSR
Menu
Facebook
LinkedIn
YouTube
Home
What we do
Who we help
Where we work
News
Who we are
Our history
Our people
Our Annual Report
Get involved
Help fundraise
What’s on
Volunteer in the UK or Russia
Buy Christmas cards
Donate
Donate by post
Leave a legacy
Our fundraising promise
Welcome to St Gregory’s Foundation.
Working with our local partners in Russia and the former USSR we bring knowledge, skills and support to local initiatives, creating opportunities for vulnerable people to fulfil their potential. From small beginnings to great results during 25 years our work makes disadvantaged children and families active participants in improving their own lives and encourages a more charitable society.
Donate now!
What we do
We provide life skills and vocational training to disabled teenagers so they can become as independent as possible. We provide education, training and skills to graduates from orphanages to give them a good start in life. We help young parents who grew up in orphanages to bond with their children and keep their family. We empower children and…
Read more What we do
Where we work
St Gregory’s Foundation supports projects in three main locations, St Petersburg and Karelia in North West Russia and Tbilisi in Georgia. However, our work often has a wider impact as our partners pass their skills and expertise onto others. By using the power of the internet, we can speed up this process across this vast…
Read more Where we work
Get involved
One of the advantages of being a small charity is that there are plenty of opportunities for you to get involved personally in our work.  We’ll be glad to hear from you if you’d like to volunteer or to meet you at one of our events.
Read more Get involved
St Gregory’s on Facebook
St Gregory’s on Facebook
Sign up to receive monthly news from St Gregory’s
* indicates required
Email Address
*
First Name
Last Name
News and Stories from SGF
Sunflower did the impossible – they saved my daughter for me
21st July 2016
Jamal and Giorgi explain how they went from street children to outreach workers for Mkurnali
21st July 2016
How our Club for toddlers with impaired hearing helped Camilla learn to talk
21st July 2016
Two brothers find a new family thanks to Kondopoga parish
21st July 2016
St Gregory's Foundation is a UK-registered charity: no. 1002469
Our registered address is: 8 Biddulph Road, London W9 1JB, United Kingdom
Copyright 2016
Contact Us
Name(required)
Email(required)
Comment(required)
Get in touch Correspondence address:
Julia Ashmore, Executive Secretary,
St Gregory’s Foundation,
4 Bushy Court, 20 Upper Teddington Road
Hampton Wick, Surrey, KT1 4DU
Tel. 020 3372 4992
Proudly powered by WordPress
|
Theme: Edin by WordPress.com.
