Black and Minority Ethnic User-led Perspectives in Mental Health
HomeAbout UsWho We AreNewsContact Us
Our Work
Research and EvaluationPolicy DevelopmentOrganisational ChangePublishingPublicationsArchive
Black & Minority Ethnic User-led Perspectives in Mental Health
Survivor Research specialises in foregrounding the perspectives of mental health service users and survivors in the thinking and innovation around mental health, wellbeing and recovery. Our particular expertise lies in bridging the gap between user/survivor advocacy and research/policy. We are particularly interested in making the views and opinions of users and survivors from black and minority ethnic and other marginalised communities an integral and critical part of the overall service user/survivor voice.
We are a group of independent workers offering consultancy services in mental health. We undertake:
Research
Policy and organisational development
Workshop and focus group facilitation
Evaluation
Service audits
Public speaking and writing
Latest News
Call for Papers: Critical Underpinnings of User/Survivor Research and Co-production
We are happy to announce a call for papers for a special edition of the journal Philosophy, Psychiatry & Psychology focusing on the critical underpinnings of user/survivor research and co-production.
Read more
Update: Inquiry into the 'schizophrenia' label
Preliminary findings show that over 80 per cent of those who gave evidence believe the 'schizophrenia' diagnosis is damaging and dangerous.
Read more
Inquiry set to question 'schizophrenia' label
Is the label 'schizophrenia' stigmatising people or helpting them, a new independent inquiry is set to find out.
Read more
Disability, discrimination and Indian laws
Bhargavi Davar finds that Indian laws and their parameters and language discriminate against people with various kinds of disabilities and not just people of 'unsound mind'.
Read more
Inquiry into acute and crisis care: report
The report of Mind's inquiry into acute and crisis care, Listening to Experience, calls for more humane services.
Read more
Highlights
Peer support in mental health
The report 'The Freedom to be, the Chance to Dream' calls for preserving the values and ethos underlying user-led peer support in mental health.
Read more... Link
Black women, recovery and resilience
A new report on black women's stories of recovering from mental and emotional distress from the Mental Health Foundation and Survivor Research.
Read more... Link
The Sackcloth Man
The Sackcloth Man, a children's book written by Jayasree Kalathil, tells the story of ten-year-old Anu and the Sackclothman and their growing friendship as they help each other make sense of sadness and strength.
Read more... Link
