Home - TPAS CymruTPAS Cymru | Participation Works
English
Welsh
Members Area
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
About
Join Us
Services
Events
Partnerships
Publications
Policy Information
Welcome to TPAS Cymru
The Tenant Participation Advisory Service (TPAS Cymru) has supported social housing tenants and landlords across Wales to develop effective participation in housing for over 25 years.  We also work on the wider citizen engagement agenda, promoting good practice in public services, through training, support, practical projects and policy development.
We have extensive knowledge of social housing with a focus on issues from tenant perspective and for the benefit of the tenants.
New Welsh Government Consultations
TPAS Cymru invite comments from members to contribute to the consultations carried out by the Welsh Government and other agencies that impact on housing and community issues in Wales.
Click here to read the latest consultations ac to find out how to leave your comments.
TAP Cymru
A Tenant Advisory Panel, also known as ‘TAP’, was established in summer 2010 to support the Regulatory Board for Wales.
Click here to read more about the TAP
TPAS Cymru Publications
TPAS Cymru produces a range of publications including guidance, information and specific statistics for the social housing sector in Wales. Our goal is to make information available in an accessible format, without compromising the quality of the information.
Visit our publications pages for further information on our latest publications.
TPAS Cymru Events
TPAS Cymru is hosting a number of events throughout the year to promote the sharing of good practice, expand knowledge and skills and to facilitate the development of tenant participation policy and housing in Wales. Visit our events pages for further information on our forthcoming events.
New Solutions Available - Service User Involvement
Please click here to read
RT @DavidTheLloyd: Really good discussions today @TPASCymru #training for @NewportCityH Residents and lots of info shared. Thanks for posi… 05:27 February 16, 2017RT @Dai_TpasCymru: Delighted to be representing @TPASCymru at Taf/Myrddin Tenant Network this evening. Love listening to tenant views. http… 10:00 February 15, 2017RT @DavidTheLloyd: Looking forward to speaking about @TPASCymru #participation and #volunteering at the Volunteering Wales Network @WalesCV… 09:02 February 15, 2017
Latest News & Events
TPAS stands for Tenant Participation Advisory Service and TPAS Cymru is the national tenants and landlord participation service for Wales.
Our essential Wales-wide role is to be a resource hub of information and expertise in advising on and promoting good practice in tenant participation for the benefit of tenants and social landlords alike.
Our work is wide ranging and includes; delivering training, undertaking reviews of tenant participation, establishing and supporting scrutiny, service user involvement , managing projects, organising events, disseminating information and good practice and much more.
We are active across Wales working with tenants, residents, landlords and supported housing providers, operating from our head office in Cardiff city centre and our a small regional office in North Wales.
Feel free to get in touch with us to find out how we can support you or to find out more about the services we provide:
Tel: 02920 237303;  Tel: 01492 593046
enquiries@tpascymru.org.uk
We are recruiting! Participation Officer
31/01/2017
Participation Officer (South Wales) Location:  Cardiff City Centre Hours:  28hrs per week (0.8 FTE) Salary : Up to FTE £29,854 (pro-rated equivalent up to £23,883) Contract term:  Initially 24 months fixed term Summary TPAS Cymru is evolving with exciting plans … Continue reading →
Temporary Vacancy at TPAS Cymru
24/01/2017
Temporary Project Assistant TPAS Cymru is looking for Project Assistant to assist us for approximately 2 months on some projects and important tasks. We are looking for approximately 15 to 28 hours per week. Location:  our Cardiff Office (Unite … Continue reading →
The real reason to go and see ‘I Daniel Blake’
25/10/2016
Last week Wales Online did a feature called ‘9 reasons critics are calling Ken Loach’s new movie ‘I, Daniel Blake’ the must-see movie of the year’ Of the 9 good reasons, most I could agree with.  If you want … Continue reading →
Documents & Publications TPAS Cymru regularly produces publications which are on topics relating to tenant participation, housing and comunity issues.Click to read TPAS annual reports, policy papers and publications.
Click to read TPAS Cymru's most recent report on The Shape of Tenant Participation in Wales to compare with view of TP in the recent Welsh Government Review of Support for Tenant Participation.
Do you run a business?
Click here to find out about interesting and affordable sponsorship opportunities with TPAS Cymru
Phone us in South Wales029 2023 7303
Phone us in North Wales01492 593046
© 2012-2013 TPAS Cymru
Website design and development by ORBITS
Filemaker Pro 13
Dragon Naturally speaking
Intuit QuickBooks
Minitab 17
Nero 12
Quarkxpress 10
Roxio Creator
Sage Act
Sony Vegas
Vmware Workstation
This website uses cookies for improved functionality and are essential for the functioning of our site. If you continue to use our site we will assume you accept the use of cookies.
You can disable cookies in your browser, but you will not be able to use all the features of this site. Accept
More information on the use of cookies on this site can be found Here.
