Tiger 2 Tiger
Tiger 2 Tiger
Tiger 2 Tiger
Home
Contact Me
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Categories
Should you Invest in a Food Chain Franchise?
Posted on August 26, 2016January 10, 2017 by Sandra White
Also known as the food capital of Asia, food chain franchise in Singapore is considered as a safe bet. Food is never affected by economic or political conditions. Given the diversity of Singapore population, the opportunities are abundant. The emergence of new concept restaurants is testimony of the willingness of Singaporeans to try something new.
Food chain franchise- the inside story:
Decide on investing in a food franchise only after you consider these points:
* Labor is hard to find: Restaurateurs in Singapore have been constantly vexed on finding and retaining their cooks and support staff. Maintaining a hired kitchen staff is harder than getting to work on time in rush hour traffic. Problems crop up because of the worker demands. Before starting off, do your homework on preparing the dishes you wish to serve.
* License issues: License can be applied for and bought without hiring an external agent. The consultation fees of such experts are high and only add to the cost of investment. A good place to start is EnterpriseOne to check out the various license types available. Know that different licenses fall under the category of their respective statutory board.
* Restaurants demand a high initial investment: Singapore offers limited retail space. Given this restriction, rental prices are off the roof. The government however has certain grants in place that are applicable to the beverage and food industry. One of these includes the PIC or Productivity and Innovation Credit scheme offered by IRAS. PIC offers rebates on innovative business activities like investment in a noodle making machine that not only saves on labor but also increases productivity.
* Location: For a restaurant, the primary focus is the location. Most restaurants fail because of their reclusive location. Do not compromise on location.
* Hire the right hands: It is obvious but a restaurant is only as good as the food served there. Work on hiring the right chef. Pay special attention to ensure that the taste is not compromised on. There are many instances when a restaurant known for its delicacies went into a downward spiral because the head chef quit. Keep the chefs happy if you wish to sustain and not shut shop in five years.
* Maintain high standards: Good service is as important as service. Train hosts to interact with customers pleasantly to maintain the right ambiance.
Food industry still remains one of the top Singapore franchise opportunity. For more information log on to Franchiseasia.one.
Posted in BusinessLeave a comment
Experience The Most Authentic F&b Franchise Singapore Hides For You
Posted on July 26, 2016January 10, 2017 by Sandra White
New foods are being introduced all over the world by restaurant owners who want to branch out and make their food accessible for customers all over the world. There are a few difficulties that come with opening up a restaurant and expanding it, however, there are many more benefits that once dealt with, make the concerns unimportant. From bringing southern American food to Europe or shima from Africa, the most popular local F&B franchise Singapore has to offer, locals and visitors alike, is not a bad idea at all.
Asian food is enjoyed all over the world, and is something that many even travel far to eat, back to Asia from where is first originated. There are Asian who have spread all over the world opening up restaurants, many have been found to be successful and have enjoyed sharing their love for food with the world. This is what this form of business is; a place in which one can visit and be able to get a taste of a place that is far away, in their own town.
There are a few things that must however be overcome first. This is the fact that each recipe needs to be an exact replica of that as the original restaurant, as to give the customers a taste of what’s far away. Accessibility of sushi, if need be, or ostrich, needs to be made possible in order for the recipe to work out well and clients, to be impressed.
There are plenty of things that can be very beneficial for any owner when choosing this line of work. These include the free marketing that each restaurant gets as soon as the contract is signed, the training that the staffs is sent through in order to deliver a certain service level and even the restaurant setting all done by professional stylists as to imitate the original restaurant. Most things are re-planned and will be taken care of by the owner of the firm, as reputation is extremely important.
There are a few disadvantages. One bad review can reflect on all. Accessibility is needed in order to be able to receive all necessary merchandise for the business to be set up.
There is little to no competition between the same sort of establishments. Money needs to be made yes, it all goes to one name. Working together for the same franchising head office means just that–working together.
A franchise restaurant is a good choice to make. Familiarity is something many flock to and this draws in customers. There are great things in store for owners who chose a food and beverage firm in Singapore.
Posted in BusinessLeave a comment
Cyber Security and ITIL
Posted on July 17, 2016January 10, 2017 by Sandra White
As the world move towards better connectivity and increased reliance on data online, it is vital to ensure a high level of security in order to prevent any untoward incidents. Businesses have to be extra careful because they are dealing with large repositories of customer data. This data can be compromised if appropriate measures aren’t taken to keep them secure from cyber criminals.
What is ITIL?
ITIL is a success framework which consists of a number of best practices which can be implemented in IT service management. It is used to provide superior IT services by defining the goals, processes, and procedures of the organization. The flexibility of ITIL allows you to implement solutions without including every aspect of the framework.
What is cyber security?
Cyber security is the management and protection of information systems from being stolen, damaged, or disrupted. Breaches in security happen often and are intentional or accidental. When a breach occurs the system’s data becomes vulnerable and can be accessed by people who are not authorized to view it.
Using ITIL to provide security
Security management is a level in ITIL which includes the planning and management of IT services and incidents. Security isn’t something you implement once; it is an ongoing process which has to be monitored and managed continuously. There are 5 areas of security which an organization has to handle.
* Planning. Access the need for and the level of security in your organization. Evaluate the risks involved in implementing them and suggest steps to mitigate them.
* Implementation. Introducing the new operational changes in security and ensuring risk management measures are in place.
* Control. Security is a value-add to your organization which will improve customer satisfaction and reduce costs. It is important there be a formal policy to address security and the steps to be taken to enhance it.
* Evaluation. This is vital to measure the effectiveness of the security system. You have to go through numerous event and security logs to ensure the system in place is successful in its function.
* Maintenance. Customer and company data is sensitive and have to be handled as such. Regular maintenance of the security system will help you find new threats and allow the enforcement of stricter policies to tackle them.
If you are looking for an ITIL certification in Singapore, there are plenty of vendors who offer their services. With the certification under your belt, you are well-prepared to handle issues related to incident, project, change, and even security management. You can thus implement solutions which can impact your organization positively.
Posted in GeneralLeave a comment
There Are Many Types Of Kiosk That Can Match Every Requirement – Check This
Posted on June 30, 2016January 10, 2017 by Sandra White
Self Service Kiosk is a terminal that is computerized which can feature all the exceptional software and hardware developed to exhibit in the public for accessing any kind of information and any kind of application to communicate, commerce, education and entertainment. Initially they were designed like the telephone booths and now are the days where they are being used whilst sitting on a chair or bench at their own comfort. Also, Kiosk is not a limited software / hardware version. It keeps changing for every requirement and can match every demand. There is a variety of self service kiosk used for many purposes. So, check these types and match the one to meet the demand.
Types –
Telekiosk – It is considered by many as the successor to that of a telephone booth for its resembling looks. These Kiosks are set up in public and is accessible to everyone for the purpose of communication. Initially it was used for email purpose, faxing or even to send a SMS. Quite sometimes it served as a telephone too. But it is no longer used and rare to find one.
Financial Services – This type of Kiosk helps in providing the comfort to customers in order to perform tasks like transacting money, which requires any person to guide on bank related details. In any teller machine it generally takes longer time than expected and is complex. So these Kiosks help with easy steps in making transactions or clarifying the queries.
Photo Kiosk – It is a self service kiosk that helps printing the digital images. For instance, the Kodak Company has set up as many as 1 Lakh units to print the photos taken in digital camera. All it had were customized LCD screened personal computers to print in the central printer with the assistance of customer service chain.
Internet Kiosk – An internet kiosk is featured to provide the public an access to internet. Few kiosks are designed like that of telephone booths while the others are set up like a box in any crowded place and where the requirement is of much demand. For example this kiosk can be used in the lobbies of hotel, waiting rooms in hospitals, complex offices, lounge of office and airports. With this kiosk one can access e-mail or browse through web pages and make payments by swiping a credit card.
Ticketing Kiosk – It is used in many amusement parks and cruise ships to check in the park or ship. With this ticketing, there is absolutely no necessity for a person to attend the customer and make a ticket for him / her. Many local trains and metro trains in many cities across the globe use the same system.
Posted in GeneralLeave a comment
Search for:
Recent Posts
Should you Invest in a Food Chain Franchise?
Experience The Most Authentic F&b Franchise Singapore Hides For You
Cyber Security and ITIL
There Are Many Types Of Kiosk That Can Match Every Requirement – Check This
Archives
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
February 2017
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
12345
6789101112
13141516171819
20212223242526
2728
Proudly powered by WordPress
|
Theme: Evento by Awothemes.
