The Tony Jones Roleplaying Page
THE TONY JONES ROLEPLAYING PAGE
Home   Up   Site Map
"The Real World is Important, But I Wouldn't Want to Live in it All the Time." - Me.
This is something I enjoy a lot, both face to face and over Email. There are lots of roleplaying sites out there. In particular, Woodelf's Page is very good and covers just about every RPG there is.
I've played in and run a number of games over the years, but I don't have stuff from all of them on computer. However, the links below are to what I do have, on separate pages, listed by game system.
Amber - lots of stuff here.
Champions - lots of stuff here, too.
MegaTraveller - a fair amount of stuff.
Space 1889 - some stuff.
In addition to this, there are a number of other sections on this page, including:
Worlds and World Design
Alternate Histories (on a separate page)
Other Worlds Of Mine
Alien Races
Other Things Of Mine
World Design-Related Links
The FreeRPG WebRing
Other Roleplaying-Related Links
My Quiz Results
And a Disclaimer
Click on the section headings to return to the top of the page.
There are some other games which I don't have any material for, but which deserve at least a mention. Firstly GURPS, by Steve Jackson Games, for the sheer variety and quality of its worldbooks and other supplements. And secondly, the various White Wolf games, for their serious angst potential.
Like psychedelic art?
Then you should like Junzart!
By my brother.
FOR SALE
Roleplaying Game Books and Comics
Worlds and World Design
I consider a good world background to be an important part of a decent roleplaying game, and I enjoy creating world backgrounds myself, both of worlds which are the Earth, and also alternate-history Earths. So, first, here are links to, in general, some fairly non-system-specific worlds of my creation along with some general notes and utilities.
Other Worlds and Games Of Mine
Servants of the Empire : A detailed steampunk fantasy world.
Girandole : A fantasy universe.
The City of Moscow as a Game Setting.
A gallery of my pictures of Moscow.
Vladivostok and the Russian Far East as a Game Setting : A related setting to that of Moscow.
The Pirates Game : What it says!
A Cross-Dimensional Axis System : Some thoughts on how this might work.
The Ur-Creature Generator : A web-page-based program using the rules in chapter 4 of GURPS Uplift, first edition to generate an alien creature ready to be uplifted into sentience. Also useful for simply generating ideas for alien races. There is also a PC program version that consists of a 335K zip file containing the program's source code, executable and a 'readme' file.
I have also created a set of pages which describe the scheme of Heaven, Purgatory and Hell from the Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri which was used in one of my Amber games.
Inferno : Hell
Purgatorio : Purgatory
Paradiso : Heaven
Also, here is a page something which I have found useful from time to time, and which may be useful to others as well, namely, two methods for calculating the distance to the horizon on any world.
Alien Races
The Ekrratki - A race with three genders and a very high degree of sexual dimorphism.
The Gubprwufu - A quadrupedal anaerobic hive-mind race.
The Ltss'Tak - Highly changeable gas giant dwellers.
The Oghaldzon - A tripedal race who see by sonar and who have two genders but no active sex.
The Txkri - An intrinsically religious quadrupedal race.
The Wustrtuu - A blind, tentacled, highly casted race who reproduce by something not unlike cancer.
Other Things Of Mine
The Spinner, an online Chinese gambling spinner
Some Thoughts on Laser Communicators
World Design-Related Links
And to help in general world design, here are some links to a variety of world design-related sites (I make no promises as to how valid they may currently be).
A huge far-future posthuman science fiction universe, to which I contribute.
Alien Planet Designer
Nine Planets
World Building Course : A university course on building realistic worlds.
Star Tables from the World Building Course : Lots of useful information here.
World Building
The Epona Project : A very detailed world design.
Worlds in the Net : A huge index of the many fictional worlds that exist on the internet.
AlternateHistory.com : A justifiably self-described 'gateway to alternate history on the Internet'.
The FreeRPG WebRing
The FreeRPG Ring
[ Next Site | Random Site | List Sites ]
Other Roleplaying-Related Links
These are some general roleplaying links (I make no promises as to how valid any of these are).
The Cambridge University Roleplaying Society - source of many a happy game for me.
Everweb - an Everway site.
Forgotten Futures - various games set in science fiction universes from before there was science fiction.
John H. Kim's Role-Playing Game Pages - lots of good stuff here, particularly on his theory page.
The Nexus - a site covering Shadowrun, SLA Industries, and a few other games too.
Play By E-Mail Links
Play By E-Mail News
Rich Staats' RPG Articles
The RPG Games Directory
Critical Miss - the Magazine for Dysfunctional Roleplayers.
Particularly Roleplaying In the Big Red. That is, in Russia.
A Site of Sites of Character Names - potentially very useful.
Studies About Fantasy Roleplaying Games
V. Vuorela's special TAIGA-homepage
woodelf's RPG Index - practically every game in the world is here!
A History of Role-Playing
The Museum of Role Playing Games
Science Fiction Mad - a huge set of science fiction-related links.
Niclas Forsell's NameGenerator Program - a very useful utility program.
Rate this site at RPG Library
My Quiz Results
MY VILLAIN TYPE
MY EDDIE IZZARD LINE
What Type of Villain are You?
mutedfaith.com.
Which Eddie Izzard line are you?
brought to you by Quizilla
THE ACTION HERO I WOULD BE
You scored as Batman, the Dark Knight. As the Dark Knight of Gotham, Batman is a vigilante who deals out his own brand of justice to the criminals and corrupt of the city. He follows his own code and is often misunderstood. He has few friends or allies, but finds comfort in his cause.
Batman, the Dark Knight
67%
Lara Croft
63%
Neo, the "One"
58%
Indiana Jones
58%
William Wallace
58%
Maximus
54%
The Amazing Spider-Man
50%
The Terminator
46%
El Zorro
46%
James Bond, Agent 007
46%
Captain Jack Sparrow
46%
Which Action Hero Would You Be? v. 2.0
created with QuizFarm.com
Please note the following disclaimer.
Send any comments to me at tony {dot} website {at} clockworksky {dot} net.
Also, be aware that this site is constantly under construction, so it is entirely possible that things will be changed or added to without warning or notification (though it will be very rarely that anything is actually removed).
Back to the Top.
Back to My Home Page.
Copyright © Tony Jones, 2005.
This work is licenced under a Creative Commons Licence.
Background from The Clone Web Site.
