Home - Transition Bro Gwaun
01348 872019
transitionbrogwaun@phonecoop.coop
Facebook
Facebook
Home
Login
The Future for Transition Cafe?
Surplus Food Project
Surplus Food Project
Transition Cafe
Renewable Energy
Abergwaun Community Turbine
Tidal Energy Project
News
Cafe
Our Volunteers
TBG
Events
Calendar
Cymuned Unol – Community Together
Contact Us
Volunteering
Select Page
Transition Cafe are finalists in a Food Waste Solution competition.
Please vote for Transition Cafe and make them European food waste champions (we know they’re already winners but a little recognition always helps!)
VOTE HERE!
Transition Bro Gwaun
A community initiative
Transition Café
ACT –
Abergwaun Community Turbine
SFP – Surplus Food Project
Community Turbine
Transition Café
Surplus Food Project
COP21 and 21 Stories of Transition
Transition Bro Gwaun
Upcoming Events
FREE February Half-term Funky Junk Kids Craft, booking advisable
Our annual seed swap moves to Fishguard Town Hall, Transition Cafe cakes, snacks and preserves available too.
Ask Transition Cafe to cater for your event, or bring your party to us! We can offer cakes, buffets, lunches and 3-course-meals.
Contact Transition Cafe for more information, phone 01348 872019 or email transitioncafefishguard@gmail.com
Follow us on Facebook!
TBG   or    Cafe
Facebook
Follow
Facebook
Follow
Follow us on Twitter and Instagram!
Twitter
Follow
Instagram
Follow
Calendar
FREE Funky Junk for kidsCome along to Transition Cafe in February Half-term and join Funky Junkers Melissa Pettitt and Jana Davidson with their marvelous magical skills at ...February 20 @ 10:00 am - 11:30 pm at Transition Café FishguardSew, Knit and NatterWeekly group meeting at the cafe, bring your own project, share skills and ideas. Recycling materials and upcycling projects particularly encouraged! ...February 21 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm at Transition Café FishguardBore Clonc – ‘Clonc’ MorningClonc wythnosol yn y Caffi Trawsnewid, Abergwaun ar ddydd Mercher, rhwng 10.30 ac 1.00 yng ngofal staff a gwirfoddolwyr y caffi (does dim rhaid aros...February 22 @ 10:30 am - 1:00 pm at Transition Café FishguardBuddhist Discussion Meeting – All WelcomePembrokeshire Buddhists are meeting at Transition Cafe for a discussion meeting, all welcome. ‘Happiness is found close by. In a world where in...February 22 @ 7:30 pm - 9:00 pm at Transition Café FishguardSeedy SaturdayTBG’s annual Seedy Saturday is back! This year the seed swap has moved to the Farmers Market at Fishguard Town Hall. Transition Cafe will also h...February 25 @ 9:00 am - 1:00 pm at Fishguard Town HallSew, Knit and NatterWeekly group meeting at the cafe, bring your own project, share skills and ideas. Recycling materials and upcycling projects particularly encouraged! ...February 28 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm at Transition Café FishguardCuppa with a CopperThe local PCSO (Police Community Support Officer) will be in Transition Cafe on the first Wednesday of every month, come and see them about any issue...March 1 @ 10:30 am - 11:30 pm at Transition Café FishguardSew, Knit and NatterWeekly group meeting at the cafe, bring your own project, share skills and ideas. Recycling materials and upcycling projects particularly encouraged! ...March 7 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm at Transition Café Fishguard
What is Transition Bro Gwaun?
Transition Bro Gwaun is a community process of imagining and creating a future that addresses the challenges of climate change, resource depletion, including expensive oil and gas supplies, and an unsustainable economy reliant on growth.  We aim to create the kind of community that makes the future more certain for our children and less dependent on resources from elsewhere.  This has enormous implications not only for the environment, but also on an economic system that currently relies on unsustainable growth.
We aim to create a sustainable, prosperous society without growth, and without oil dependency.
Transition Bro Gwaun is one of a growing number of transition initiatives around the world, being inspired by the original model developed in Kinsale (Eire) under the guidance of Rob Hopkins in 2005. An important part of the Transition process involves finding and working with existing groups and organisations, as well as looking for new projects.
We publicise our work and Transition issues through regular meetings, talks to local groups, our stall at the Farmers Market, a regular e-mail newsletter, attending local events, and on its website.
Transition Towns Introduction
TBG COP21 Video
Transition Bro Gwaun and Cafe 32a High Street
Fishguard
Pembrokeshire
SA65 9AR
Tel: 01348 872 019
Tel: 07831 582 718
transitionbrogwaun@phonecoop.coop
Transition Cafe Open Tuesday - Friday 10.30 to 4.00
Serving homemade cakes, lunches and drinks.
Turning 900 kilograms of surplus food into tasty meals every month.
Please support us
Donations We are a not-for-profit organisation working towards a sustainable future.
Your donation will enable us to continue our awareness raising work in our community.
Facebook
Web site hosting Pembrokeshire Online
