Welcome to Truro Cathedral
Loading
Latest.
Refugee Crisis - How Can I Help?
Latest Sermon
February Music Lists
February and March Cathedral Newsletter
Half Term Fun for children
Children's Church Jan 2017 CCTV Volunteers required
Assistant Director of Music required
Shop Volunteers needed
Volunteer Application Form
Safeguarding Poster
SIGN A SLATE
Safeguarding Policy
Truro Cathedral Stained Glass WindowsBecome a girl Chorister with Truro Cathedral Choir
Become a boy Chorister with Truro Cathedral Choir
Choral Scholarships
Friends of Truro Cathedral Parish and Deanery Visits to the Cathedral
FCM Olaf Schmid Memorial Choristership
Open to Question
Dean's Message of support for refugees
Welcome to Truro Cathedral
We hope that you enjoy your visit to our web site and hope that
you will find it useful and
thought provoking.
Visiting us
Click here for information to help plan your visit to the Cathedral
Day to day
Here you will find News, Prayer requests,
Contact Us,
Been thinking about volunteering for Truro Cathedral?
Volunteering is a rewarding experience. It gives you a
chance to get involved with something you feel passionately about and use your
skills to help others. Here at Truro Cathedral there are all sorts of areas you
can get involved with as a volunteer, from becoming a trained guide, to
learning about our internal TV system and filming events.
If you want to find out more about the varied roles on offer
the following document will give you some information and tell you what to do
next. Download Volunteer Pack and Volunteer Application Form
Donate to Us
If you would like to support us in the work that we do then please click here to donate
Cathedral in the Community
Click here to view a short video highlighting how Truro Cathedral has inspired the people of Cornwall.
The Cathedral Story
Virtual Tour
Restaurant
Shop
Links
HOT Topics
Truro Cathedral Office, 14 St Mary's Street, Truro TR1 2AF. Tel: 01872 276782
This is also the registerd address for Truro Cathedral Ltd,
(Registration number: 4917372, Place of Registration: Cardiff)
