Home
Winteringham History & Genealogy - Home Page
Winteringham Local History and Genealogy
Other websites in the Winteringham Family of Websites:
Important Winteringham Anniversaries
Here’s some of the important anniversaries coming up in the next few years ....
100th Anniversary4th April 2017102 year old former Mayor of Winterinbgham, Edmund Cordeaux died.700th Anniversary26th September 2017Edward II granted a charter for a market and fair to be held at Winteringham, in 1317.
100th Anniversary6th March 2021Unveiling of the War Memorial, Gate End100th Anniversary26th October 2021First bus service to Winteringham100th
Anniversary11th July 2025Final timetabled passenger train leaves Winteringham Station100th Anniversary19th September 2027WI formed100th
Anniversary9th July 2028Opening of Winteringham School
The Great War - 100th anniversaries of Winteringham men killed in action, in date order4-12-1915George Burkill22-12-1915Elias W Field5-10-1916Reginald J Dodds24-4-1917Charles
Howden3-5-1917Frederick Kirkby*31-5-1917Frank Brown31-7-1917William Earl17-8-1917Albert Green23-9-1917Harold
Dawson**26-3-1918Joseph Green11-10-1918John Robinson9-2-1919Charles Albert Ogg* I have been unable to verify 100% that this is 'our'
Frederick Kirkby, but is the most likely** Not on our memorial, but a Winteringham-raised man, living at the time in Barton
EvacueesWere you, or one of your family,
one of “our” evacuees?  We’d love to hear from you!
Fascinating Winteringham Photos
many with mysteries attached!Click any photo for more information
Add this site to your favourites
FamilyHistoryQuests.co.uk
Latest Update: 19th February 2017
Schooling
On this day in Winteringham ....1841: A letter appeared in the Stamford Mercury, referring to some very accomplished brickwork.  The correspondent thought it so good that it must have been a sample of "the Winteringham bricklayer."  (It apparently was not, in this instance.)
1886: Walter Bell, sailor, was fined £1, with £1-4s costs when found guilty of assaulting PC Everitt.
1921:
For using a very lame horse for work in a turnip field, William Sutton was fined £1, and his farmworker 2s 6d.1925:
The Diarist reported on 4 whist drives held in February 1925!  Of these one named “Jimmie Sewells Whist drive” raised the most cash (£15).  The same diarist had reported that Jimmie had his foot cut off in a farm accident the previous 6th December.
The Grocer
and Draper’s shop you have in your High Burgage photos, used to be my ggg grandfather’s in the late 1830s-early 1840s. He was William Kirk born
around 1810 (outside Lincolnshire) and died around 1846 (probably Hull) His wife Ann(Fox) died 1835 and he re-married to Martha Horner. He had a son John born
1833 in Burringham.Do you have any suggestions as to where I can find more information on William e.g place of birth.
I am interested
in anything and everything to do with Mill/Mills in Winteringham and North Lincs. My name is Michael WINN, I am a direct relative of Mary Ann Judge (nee
WINN)and her husband Charles Judge.Mary was indeed born in Blyton, she was baptised on 13th Sept. 1811, and her father Robert Winn built the Mill at Blyton
in 1825. She also had a brother Robert Lightfoot and a sister Elizabeth.Her father Robert also had a brother William, Alkborough Mill, a brother Thomas at
Glentham Mill, and a brother John at Tealby Water Mill.Mary Ann Judge had 7 children, Martha, Robert, Charles, Joseph, William, Mary and Sarah. You will by
now have guessed that I am tracing the "WINN" Family Tree.On
my Tree I also have a marriage in Winterton in 1799 between a Sarah Codd and William WINN and a marriage in 1824 between a Mary Naylor and William
WINN.Someone in your article was also interested in Grasby? Robert Winn's father, John Winn married a Mary Grasby in Caenby in 6th Nov.1760, Mary was
baptised in Thimbleby in 1723.Also in the article you stated that in 16th Nov. 1943 Herbert Clayton sold Mill House for £450 on16th Nov 1905, advert for
the purchase of fixed machinery and Plant at Winteringham Roller flour Mill.  Any more details of the above would be welcome.If you could send me a
copy of your article and any drawings/sketches/photos etc. appertaining to the same and/or any thing on any other Lincs Mills would be greatly appreciated
It may be Hull City of Culture 2017, but the same year marks Winteringham’s own
historic year - 700 years since the charter awarding a market each Wednesday and
an annual fair.  There is now an accurate translation of the charter, and it is intended
to have a calligrapher make a copy to be kept in the parish for posterity!  Knights
and minstrels are already booked for the event!  Keep an eye on this website, or on the special Winteringham Festival website for further details (click here for the Festival website).
A much larger version of this postcard can be found on the Hi-Res photos site
Arthur Bell’s West End Stores
Pat Hatton & Val Peill
Alan FrostVal Peill
Rev Denton Ordained
Marjorie Bratton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Coloured Post Card of the Church
AFS Fire EnginePat Hatton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Pensioners Teas (2 photos)
Pat Hatton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Winteringham FairPat Hatton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
West Farm
Winteringham Church from North
Winteringham Cricket Club CapAndrew Snowdon
EW Field, photos of headstone,
cemetery in Algeria, and uniform as preservedAndrew and Chris Snowdon
Winteringham Lighthouse Shield
Val Peill
Bus OutingVal Peill
Unknown OccasionLorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Ferry Boat Inn socialLorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Normanby Hall EventVal Peill
Peeps Round Winteringham
Porcelain Tank with village Crest
Sandra Clayton, Ken Jacobs
Crossing the Humber on Foot
Sandra Clayton, Ken Jacobs, Britain from Above, Chris Snowdon
Remembrance Parade November 1934
Sandra Clayton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Charles Albert Ogg and his brother Harold OggElaine Harrison
Great War, Roll of Honour
Will Maw, photographed by Ken Jacobs
Auction of “Household Effects” from Rectory 1899Sandra Clayton
Edmund Cordeaux
Sandra Clayton
In the MarshJohn H Bratton
In the Snow!John H Bratton
The Church in August 1979John H Bratton
Upper Whitton LightshipJohn H Bratton
From the Old RailwayJohn H Bratton
The HavenJohn H Bratton
The Haven AshPhotos from the same spot, 34 years apart!
John H Bratton
The Humber Foreshore
Photos from the same spot, 34 years apart!
John H Bratton
Church in SpringSandra Clayton
Schoolteachers 1960
Sandra Clayton
School Road 1930s
Sandra Clayton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
South Ferriby Cliff QuarryVal Mercer
School Football Champs!Leonard Hunsley, scanned by Sandra Clayton
Parish Pump RebuiltMel Parish rebuilds pump casing 11th May 2013
Photographs by Ken Jacobs
Eastwoods Cement Factory
Leonard Hunsley, scanned by Sandra Clayton(includes line-up for Queen, lorry in School Road, and a pay packet for December 1957
Winteringham School Photos 1928Leonard Hunsley, via Sandra Clayton, scanned by
Ken Jacobs
Margaret Blanchard (nee Teal) delivers milk in ScunthorpeLorna Tomlinson
Moor and Robson’s deliveries to the
Ferry Boat Inn, October 1915passed on via Lorna Tomlinson
School Photo 1959
Sandra Clayton
School Dinner Staff 1952Sandra Clayton
School Photo 1978Sandra Clayton
School Friends
Lorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Cement Works
Lorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Mrs Clarke - conductress on Enterprise
and Silver DawnMary Fell
Rose Queen 1959
Lorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Village Pump celebrations 1911 and 1977
Lorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
Gate End in 1964
Lorna Tomlinson, scanned by Ken Jacobs
School Leavers 1955
Courtesy of Sandra Clayton
Football Club, about 1930
Newspaper cutting courtesy of Mary Fell
Mr and Mrs Draper
Newspaper cutting courtesy of Mary Fell
The Unforgiving RiverA page full of
Winteringham heroes, and rescues!  Click here
Rescues and Heroes
A page full of Winteringham heroes, and rescues!
When Winteringham lost 100 jobs for 9d!
Bernard Hunsley
Susanne Nash (Bernard’s daughter)
Jessima Waterlow (left) and her
grandmother Jane Anne SlingsbyMary Fell
Market Hill - Post cardMary Fell
Gate End in the 1930s - Post card
Mary Fell
Winteringham School Photos 1950s
Pat Shipp
The Rectory 1863, by Lewis Carroll
(Charles Dodgson)A “missing” photo comes to light, with thanks to Edward Wakeling
The Old Post Office
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
Gate End
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
Haven and Boatyard (2 postcards)
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
Two Multi-View Postcards
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
National School - Plan of the School
Drawn to scale by Geoff Greaves, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
National School
Kindly supplied by Mr and Mrs Isherwood, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
Western Green
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
Armistice Day Parade c.1925
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
West End Maltkiln
Kindly supplied by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
West End Cottages
Kindly supplied by Sandra Clayton, and scanned by Ken Jacobs
Low Burgage 1900s
Burials 1631-1640Val Peill, Kay Ashberry and Chris Knowles
Winteringham Shipyard for sale!
Kindly supplied by Jane Routh
Winteringham Church decorated for
Harvest Festival, 1950sKindly supplied by Sandra ClaytonScanned by Ken Jacobs
Winteringham School Photo 1950
Kindly supplied by Sandra ClaytonScanned by Ken Jacobs
A Winteringham Burkill bottlePhotographed by Ken Jacobs
Winteringham Church Fete 1973more ....
Winteringham Drama Group c. 1950more ....
Postcard: Haven and Boatyard
more ....
WI say goodbye to Miss Brown and Miss Malone
Mary Fell
more ....
An Edwardian Diary
(It’s gone well beyond the Edwardian period now!)More extracts from a diary of one of the Burkills from Winteringham - now includes extracts from 1904-1933
Val Peill, by courtesy of Kath Smithmore ....
Winteringham People of the 1930sFrank Bray - Frank, Aidan and Joan Harrison
Christine Hammond & Chris Snowdon
more ....
Winteringham WeddingDorothy Bray - 1936
Christine Hammondmore ....
Scunthorpe Telegraph article about ferries .... and a later correction!
When the Scunthorpe Telegraph reckoned Atalanta and Isle of Axholme were dropping off ferry
-passengers at the Haven .... and their correction!Andrew Snowdonmore ....
Scunthorpe Telegraph article 1949
“Wayfarer” article with direct quotes from Mr Yewdall (engineer), Mr S A Freeman (stationmaster at
Winterton with Thealby), Mr Walter Brickell (stationmaster at Normanby Park), & Mr Fred Lee
(stationmaster at Winteringham & Whitton)Andrew Snowdonmore ....
Scunthorpe Telegraph article 1979   Includes
some terrific nuggets of historical information from Aidan Harrison!Andrew Snowdonmore ....
Cricket Club Badge
Andrew Snowdonmore ...
NB: The badge is shown well down the page on the Cricket Club page .... just above an article from the
Scunthorpe Telegraph that explains its origins!
Mill to be sold - 1829
Val Peill, scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
The Haven at Low TideJohn Kirkmore ...
Aerial Photo circa 1960John H Brattonmore ...
“Dear Sir” - re the Bay Horse
Val Peill, scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
West End and School HouseVal Peill, scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Burkills, at “The Nest”Val Peill, scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Winteringham School Photos from the 1970sVal Peill, scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Western Green
Val Peill, scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Postcard: School House and Shoemakers LaneJohn Kirkmore ...
Champions!  Winteringham Cricket Club 1948
Kindly provided by Jane Harry and scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Mysterious badge found
Ken Jacobsmore ...
Freda Rudston Read’s Winteringham sketcheskindly supplied by John Elversonmore ...
1857 photos of old folk from Winteringhamkindly supplied by John Elversonmore 1 ..., more 2 ..., more 3 ...
1857 photo of the Rectorykindly supplied by John Elversonmore ...
Norries Ark
newspaper cutting supplied by Valerie Mercermore ...
Winteringham Primary School 1950-1951Sandra Claytonmore ...
Pong Shop, 1979John H Brattonmore ...
Barges, 1979John H Brattonmore ...
Pigsties, 1979John H Brattonmore ...
Steelworks from Winteringham, 1979
John H Brattonmore ...
The Chapel, 1979John H Brattonmore ...
The Church, 31st December 1978John H Brattonmore ...
The School House, 31st December 1978
John H Brattonmore ...
The Orchard, 1979John H Bratton... more
The family tree of Rev TFR Read - here
Photos of Rev TFR Read - here
Kindly supplied and scanned by John Elverson
The life of Rev Thomas Frederick Rudston Read .... by Rev Thomas Frederick Rudston Read!
Kindly supplied, scanned and transcribed by John Elversonmore ...
Winteringham Primary School 1949Sandra Claytonmore ...
Winteringham Primary School 1952Leonard Hunsley, scanned by Sandra Claytonmore ...
Burials 1801-1810 ..... abortion, scrophula, burning, declines, and an epidemic of measles
amongst the village’s childrenVal Peill, Kay Ashberry and Chris Knowlesmore ...
An advert for Mrs Barratt’s Boarding School for
Young LadiesSandra Claytonmore ...
A request from Sarah:   I have been trying to find
out where the original manuscript of Adam's 'Private Thoughts' is located, I know that it was translated and edited
from the shorthand journal Adam kept and would very much like the opportunity to see that journal if it still exists. Any
information you can give me about this would be extremely useful.
Winteringham Church - Accounts for the 1851 RestorationSandra Claytonmore ...
Detailed photographs of the Marmion effigy in
Winteringham ChurchKen Jacobsmore ...
North Lindsey Light Railway Amendment Order 1913John Kirkmore ...
Winteringham Postcard, posted 20th September 1943, from WinteringhamJohn Kirkmore ...
Winteringham Church - A poem by Agnes CodlingSandra Claytonmore ...
A photo of Rev Charles Knowles
Sandra Claytonmore ...
A Soldier’s Tale, Part 3Valerie Mercermore ...
HeadstonesAll headstones from the churchyard for which we have
photographs (over 200 of them) are now on the site.  Higher resolution photos are available for most of these.
Victorian Boys Names in Winteringhammore ...
Victorian Girls Names in Winteringhammore ...
1871 Census Facts and Figuresmore ...
1891 Census Facts and Figuresmore ...
1933 Directory added
more ...
WI Entertain Village Children
Kath Burkill/Christine Hammondmore ...
Temperance Hall, Methodist FundraisersKath Burkill/Christine Hammondmore ...
Rose Queen 1960Kath Burkill/Christine Hammondmore ...
A new seat outside Almshouses
Kath Burkill/Christine Hammondmore ...
A Summer Fete
Kath Burkill/Christine Hammondmore ...
National School about 1928Val Peillmore ...
John Foster, Shoemaker & PoetSandra Claytonmore ...
Cub Scouts and the new tent
Val Peillmore ...
Winteringham Cricket Club - the CroftJohn Kirkbymore ...
Winteringham Cricket Club - the TeamsJohn Kirkby
more ...
Winteringham Cricket Club - the DinnersJohn Kirkbymore ...
More details of boats built in Winteringham(plus - “Haven” and “Boatbuilding” pages are now separate ones)more ...
Captain Dudding Malta 1904more ...
Winteringham School Infants, 1930s
Valerie Mercermore ...
Winteringham Overseers of the Poor expenditure
examples 1804-1809Rex Russell, provided by Sandra Claytonmore ...
Winteringham Sports - the grandstandValerie Mercermore ...
Winteringham Curate - Robert Storrymore ... on the Thomas Adam page (for whom he was curate)
Winteringham Poet of 18th century rediscovered(John Foster, or Forster, book published 1797 or 1798)
more ...
Winteringham Potato Picking circa 1940Valerie Mercer
more ...
Winteringham Spring HouseValerie Mercermore ...
Winteringham School Play 1957Katharine Willismore ...
Winteringham Cricket Club - “Wayfarer” article
August 1957, and the new club badgeSandra Claytonmore ...
Winterton PoorhouseSandra Clayton and Val Peillmore ...
Note: The picture to the left, supplied by Valerie Mercer, is of Brigg Workhouse which superseded Winterton Workhouse in the
late 1830s, and to which Winteringham poor were sent from that time onwards.
Winteringham Primary School cheque
presentation about 1980Sandra Clayton
more ...
More WI Floats for Winterton ShowChristine Hammond
more ...
Winteringham Primary School Staff Photo, for the
school’s 50th anniversary in 1978Sandra Clayton
more ...
Miss Coggan’s Class, 1957Ann Weatherhogg, scanned by Christine Hammond
more ...
WI Float for Winterton Show - General HospitalSandra Clayton
more ...
In West End, 1958Valerie Mercer, scanned by Jamie Crowston
more ...
Fancy Dress at the Chapel Fete, 1958Valerie Mercer, scanned by Jamie Crowston
more ...
Miss Malone’s Class, 1957Valerie Mercer, scanned by Jamie Crowston
more ...
The Storm of December 1874 - a poem, by Ann
Barrattfrom research by Kay Ashberry
more ...
Poster advertising the opening of the NLLR to
Winteringham and West Haltonfrom research by Flyer Robinson
more ...
Winteringham man who fought in Boer WarChris Butler
more ...
1970s WI Floats for Winterton ShowSarah Delisle
more ...
The HavenChris Snowdon
more ...
Spring HouseChris Snowdon
more ...
Railway Extension PlansSandra Clayton, scanned by Ken Jacobs
In 1905 plans were made to extend the NLLR to Burton Stather to
the west and to Barton to the east.  Thanks to Sandra and Ken we can now see these detailed plans of railways that were never
built.Plan 1  Plan 2  Plan 3
Low BurgageKay Ashberry, scanned by Ken Jacobs
more ...
Almshouses, circa 1900Sandra Clayton
more ...
In Marsh LaneSandra Clayton
more ...
Winteringham Choir 1950sSandra Clayton & Val Peill
more ...
The most infamous Victorian Villain was arrested byA Winteringham National Hero!
The amazing story of PC Edward Robinson, and the villain
Charles Peace.  Click here
British Library:Old Folk Songs,
sung by Winteringham’s Maurice Ogg, with some learned from
other Winteringham people.  Click here
A song called “Air for Maurice Ogg” can be heard on
YouTube here.
Winteringham Harvest Home 1862 posterSandra Clayton & Val Peill
more ...
Winteringham National School AnnouncementSandra Clayton
more ...
Manor Farm Childhood - Latest Story... “One
summer school day”Katharine Willis
more ...
The Winteringham Rodeoby Vera Jollands, supplied by Val Peill
more ...
Winteringham featured in the Lincolnshire Times
1961Sandra Clayton
more ...
Z G Yewdall, a man who made his mark on Winteringham!Charles Parker
more ...
Manor Farm sale catalogue 1958Katharine Willis
more ...
The Farm Sale when the Horses were named!Sandra Clayton
more ...
Manor Farm photographsKatharine Willis
more ...
Manor Farm Dairy CattleKatharine Willis
more ...
Winteringham School Group, 1950sKatharine Willis
more ...
The Brown FamilyBeverley Lucas
more ...
Cottage in West End (now demolished)
A beautiful summer day in West End, and enjoying the sun is Mrs Barber.
Photograph supplied by the Barber family, Sandra Clayton and Val Peillmore ...
Old folks Christmas PartyThe oldest man and oldest woman in the village pull a cracker for the camera in this 1950s photo
Photograph supplied by Sandra Clayton and Val Peillmore ...
To the seaside
Off to Cleethorpes in the mid-fifties with the Chapel, and what
better way to cool off than at the Cleethorpes Open-air Swimming Pool?
Photograph supplied by Sandra Clayton and Val Peillmore ...
Temperance Hall in the 1930sThe latest pic on the site is the Temperance Hall, supplied by Marjorie Bratton, and scanned by Ken
more ...
Map - showing railways that were never built!
Here’s a map from Flyer that his grandad used for planning his
bike rides ... which includes the Winteringham to Barton, and Whitton to Alkborough railways!  Also the main road is shown as
Ermine Street to Winterton, then Winteringham Road to Mere Crossroads!more ...
Potato clampingAlf Simons prepares a potato clamp - one of the latest
newspaper cuttings, which also include the Bay Horse and the village pump, supplied by Mary Fellmore ...
When horses ruled the farm ...Mary Fell’s father-in-law poses with a pair of horses as he ploughs a field in 1933 more ...
High BurgageChris Snowdonmore ...
Cliff Road in the 1950sJulie Armstrong
more ...
Church PostcardChris Snowdonmore ...
Maurice Bell’s Croix de GuerreVal Peill and Sandra Claytonmore ...
Winteringham Sports and Fair, July 1907All the details of the events from a poster of the time!
Val Peill and Sandra Claytonmore ...
Who is this guest at the Bay Horse in 1851?... and why do we owe him a debt of gratitude from then?Linda Griffiths explains all ...
Handwriting from the 19th centuryMary Fell has sent us some handwriting by Charles William
Burkill, from 1860, and from Mary Jane Robinson from 1871.more ...
“The Pong Shop”Ken JacobsKen has recorded Winteringham’s iconic Pong Shop for posteritymore ...
“New” postcard of West EndLes Burkill provides us with a wonderful winter view of West End.
Kindly scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Three “New” postcards of High Burgage
Les Burkill provides us with wonderful views of the Ferry Boat Inn,
the Primitive Chapel and Edwin Bray’s shop in old postcards of High Burgage.  Kindly scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Rose/Waddingham Family Research
Sue Kerrawn is looking for people who may be researching the
Rose - Waddingham families of Winteringhammore ...
Ralph Harrison - the man who handled £1½
million a monthOur “latest” newspaper cutting!more ...
What has a postcard of Sir Thomas Lipton to do
with Winteringham?Strangely ... possibly the best weekend ever in the village!more ...
Low Burgage Postcard
Looking north from Gate Endmore ...
Ferry Lane BarnKen was invited to record all aspects of the barn in Ferry Road
shortly before demolition ...more ...Demolition Pictures
National School InteriorThe inside of the National School, when it was used as a village
events venuemore ...
West End BoysKindly supplied by Marjorie Bratton and scanned by Ken Jacobsmore ...
Football Team 1946Kindly supplied by Val Peill and scanned by Ken Jacobs
more ...
School Groups from 1955 & 1960, Sports Day 1974Two more School Group photos added, courtesy of David Hatton,
named by Val Peill, and scanned by Ken Jacobs1955 School Group
1960 School Group
1974 Sports Day
Latest Old Photos and Post Cards!More photos and postcards from Marjorie Bratton, scanned by
Ken JacobsThe Co-op Butcher’s van in High Burgage
The Haven
HMS Vanity - Winteringham’s WarshipHMS Vanity was adopted by Winteringham in Warship Week
1941.  The son of the radar operator on the ship has now got in touch to try to find out more about “our” ship.more ...
Mary Brumby’s Fantastic Maths BooksWhen Mary Brumby was working out her maths, and shopping
lists, little could she have known how intriguing they would be 95
years later ... or that her work would be visible to people round the globe!shopping lists; maths
School Road Winteringham in the 1950s, looking northOur latest photograph, from Geoff Greaves and Ken Jacobs
more...
Can you name any of the Winteringham
intermediate football team from 1946-7?Rol Button names the lot!more...
Photos of the 1970s & 1980sVicky Cameron, who lived in Western Green in the 1970s & 1980s, has noticed that we have few photos from that era on the
websites. There must be many photos from those years that would be of interest to Vicky, and all our visitors. Have you any
that we could have on the site?  You’d make Vicky’s day!
‘A Winteringham Boyhood’The latest reminscences of a Winteringham boyhood in the 1950s
and 60s by Flyer Robinson  more...
Whatever happened to the “Swell”
No-one seemed to know what had happened to this beautiful steam drifter built at Winteringham - until Flyer did some research...more...
The Green Brothersby Patricia GreenThe tragic story of the Silver Street family who lost two brothers in
the Great War, and a third brother became a prisoner of war ...more...
‘Lincolnshire Times 1949’by John KirkWhen my aunt gave me my grandfather’s chest, look what was
inside!more...
Robert BrattonTina VeallTina’s photo of Robert Bratton, has now been added to the
“Bratton” page with further detailsmore...
‘More Burkill photographs - Dinah Shaw’by John Bosnell
more...
‘David Harrison’s Winteringham memories’
David remembers Jim Sewell, an invitation onto the footplate of an
engine at Winteringham Station, and playing cricket in the Croft ...  more...
Percy HallMary FellMary remembers Percy Hall and his brother Reginald who was
killed during the Second World War.more...
Frank Brown informationPamela Jean Sellers, grand daughter of Maud Brown
We had no information on Winteringham soldier Frank Brown, a fallen hero of the Great War.  Until Pam Sellers contacted us
...more...
Beautiful Church postcard addedA wonderful post card of Winteringham Church featuring 4 villagers ...more...
‘That Reminds Me! ... 2’Memories of Old Winteringham stirred by some of Ken’s modern
photographsmore...
19th Century Poem about the Ferry Boat ...The bells ... the bells ...
more...
‘NLLR Directors Report for AGM 1920’The accounts, railways owned and projected etc for the NLLR in
1919, for the AGM of 1920 by kind permission of www.the7820library.org.ukmore...
‘A letter from Winteringham Station...’It’s 1909, and Zachariah Yewdall writes to Sam Fay, General
Manager of the Great Central...  by kind permission of www.the7820library.org.ukmore...
‘That Reminds Me!’Memories of Old Winteringham stirred by some of Ken’s modern
photographsmore...
A 300 year-old mysteryDr Stukely posed us a Winteringham mystery almost 300 years
ago ... To what was he referring?  Where in Winteringham was it?more...
The Church from the HillOur latest acquisition of old postcardsmore...
The Spencer family of Winteringham & Winterton
Jill Floydmore...
Herbert PorkessA photo of this Winteringham gentlemanChris Snowdon
more...
‘Homes and Haunts of Henry Kirke White’Scans of the “Winteringham” pages of this book, published in
1908scans of the pages (not searchable for words)
transcriptions of the pages (searchable for words)
‘Dining in’A well-loved building in Winteringham holds fascinating memories
... is one of them your’s?more...
Brocklesby enquire after our cricket scorebooksRichard Bedwell on behalf of Brocklesby Cricket Club, would be
interested in scorebooks of games between Winteringham and Brocklesby, especially pre-1948.  If you know the whereabouts of
ANY of the Winteringham scorebooks, please contact us.
Brocklesby Park CC site
’Well, Well, Well!’A well is discovered at Walnut Farm Cottage as the roof is
completed...
more...
Will this Cartwheel Penny forever hold its
Winteringham secret?
more...
’Flyer’s Family Album of days out in Cleethorpes’left: When the UK’s current shortest seaside pier, was almost a
quarter of a mile long!
more...
Walnut Farm renovation - latest ...more...
NOW ... More information on the boot!  Update!more ...
Looking for Grasby, or Grassby informationFay Colmer is looking for information about the Grasby, or
Grassby family of Winteringham.  Can you help?Contact Us
Low Burgage & the Haven 1970 - film
See Low Burgage still with Maltkiln, weighbridge Office, railway
gates, the Warehouse, ... and the Haven with the remnants of the Railway Wharf ... all from almost 40 years ago!more...
Winteringham’s Transported Convicts
Marlene WaltersMarlene has sent us more details of the unfortunate
Winteringham men who were transported to the other side of the worldmore...
Postcard of the Lincolnshire Yeomanry, featuring, and sent by, a Winteringham War Hero 100 years ago
Andrew Snowdon & Aidan Harrisonmore...
For details of Elias William Field, click here
Winteringham War Hero, from the Ferry Boat Inn
Andrew Snowdon & Aidan HarrisonPhotos of Elias William Field, one of the men commemorated on
the Winteringham War Memorialmore...
Winteringham Cricket Club Photos
Andrew Snowdon & Aidan HarrisonThe Winteringham Cricket Club team in its cup-winning heyday!more...
More names added
Andrew SnowdonAndrew names this Winteringham Railwayman in the Home Guard photo, provides us with a date and further names for the
football team photo, and spots his mother and uncle in the National School photos.
High detail postcard addedWe have a new version of this postcard on the site, showing
Winteringham Church from the West.more...
Winteringham Railway at War
Chris SnowdonWhat was the role of the railway at Winteringham during the
Second World War.  Chris reveals all - or almost all!more...
Winteringham Stationmaster’s HouseFlyer Robinson
Flyer describes in great detail the stationmaster’s house as he
knew it in the 1950s.  A wonderful description of every part of the house and gardens!more...
Looking for Gunson informationAlan Gunson is looking for specific information about the Gunson
family of Winteringham.  Can you help?more...
Earlsgate Farm PostcardSupplied by Harry Wells
Harry provides us with this view of West End in yesteryearmore...
Final Resting Place of Winteringham Hero
We believe this to be the final resting place of Bernard Hunsley
from the Winteringham War Memorial.more...
Winteringham Railway in Everyday Operation
by Ken Jacobs, and Mrs CorneyA fantastic photo showing the Winteringham line as it was when passenger trains still ran.more...
Lazarus the Rabbit and I - both in a stew!
by Chris SnowdonWe’re looking for personal memories of the railway at
Winteringham.  Do you have memories relating to our railway?more...
1939
affectionately remembered by Kathleen Phillipsmore...
Ogg Family Genealogy...Research by Elaine Harrison (Ogg) on the Ogg framily of
Winteringhammore...
Frow Researchers...Carol Rollin is looking for other researchers into the Frow family of
Winteringham, Winterton and Appleby.more...
Plaque Commemorating Elias William FieldChris and Andrew Snowdon reveal plaque to Winteringham Great
War hero.more...
Herbert Porkess, a Winteringham Character
affectionately remembered by Chris Snowdon.  Now updated with information from Roger Porkess.more...
Winteringham poem “comes home”Poem written by Winteringham’s Ann Barratt to Queen Victoria
more...
SuttonsBonnie looks for Winteringham Sutton information ... more...
Mists of War 1917Winteringham war hero killed after order cancelling attack fails
to come through ... more...
Meggitt CottageThanks to Val Peill and a member of the Ladley family, we now
have a photograph of Meggitt Lane Cottage ... more...
Dick TurpinHis Winteringham connections ... more...
Lewis CarrollThe missing Winteringham photos from the man who wrote Alice in Wonderland
... more...
Fire!Chris Snowdon almost made a fortune helping to put out a fire at
Winteringham Haven ... more...
Happy DaysAre you on Flyer Robinson’s school photo?more...
Winteringham in the TwentiesStanley Routh’s account of the village eighty years ago.more...
Winteringham Recipe for Sunday Breakfast...
Chris Snowdon’s whimsical recipe for a classic Winteringham
Sunday breakfast back in the fifites ... including instructions about the ‘divi’ at the Co-op! (Parish Council site)more...
Winteringham in February Days of Old
February 1st
1634Elizabeth Lyon, and her daughter Frances were buried in Winteringham, having been lost in a storm.February 1st 181010 year old Mary
Thompson died of "natural smallpox."February 1st 1868The Great Storm.  A large tide overflowed the Humber banks and flooded all the
Marsh from Boothnooking Lane to Waterside Clough and run over the Waterside Road and flooded the flats or Low Groves and boats floated over the
same.February 1st 1884WINTERTON PETTY SESSIONS.- FEB. 1.  Before the Rev C. Knowles (chairman), J. Cliff and  W. Chapman, Esq, and the
Rev F. A. Jarvis.  Wesley Grant, of Sluice-lane, Winterton, summoned  by Police-Constable Gadsby for drunkenness at the Bay  Horse Inn,
Winteringham, on the 16th ult., was fined 5s.  and 5s 6d costs.February 2nd 1653The probate inventory for Edwards Roberts, a carpenter, valued
all his belongings to be worth £36.February 2nd 1833The Newcastle journal reported that Lorenzo Grainger had been appointed to the Vicarage of
Barnetby-le-Wold by the Bishop of LincolnFebruary 2nd 1877An advert placed in the Stamford Mercury offered 6 entire* cart horses aged from 4 to 9
years.  The advert told readers that the stud included the celebrated horse "Newstead" which had sired a large quantity of foal of excellent
quality.February 2nd 1883The Hull Packet reported: An interesting concert was given in the Temperance Hall on 19th inst. to a large and attentive
audience.  The programme was capitally rendered.  The pianoforte solos were admirably played by Mr W. Bennett, and were greatly applauded.  The
promoters are well satisfied with the pecuniary result, the amount realised being about five guineas, which is given in aid of church funds.February
2nd 1897The Primitive Methodists held a sewing tea provided by Mr and Mrs Newton, which raised £2-4-0 towards the bazaar fund.  Rev Alderson of Brigg,
gave a lecture on "Jack and Jill, or the Philosophy of Common Life."February 2nd 1928Speaking at the Barton on Humber Women's
Conservative Association, Sir Berkeley Sheffield stated that he had received that very morning from the railway company stating that they could see no current
possibility of joing Winteringham and Barton railway stations.February 3rd 1653The probate inventory for Edward Roberts, a carpenter, valued all
his belongings to be worth £36.February 3rd 1725Rebecca Bell’s probate inventory showed that she had a half share in the Winteringham ferry
named the “Good Will”, and of the “cogg boate.”1821: Eliza born to Isaac (labourer) and Anne SpencerFebruary 3rd 1792An
advert in the Stamford Mercury, offered a "capital black stallion" for sale.  He was rising 6 years, 16 hands and a half high, with plenty of
bone, goes well, and reputed a sure foal getter.  Price and full particulars may be known by applying to Joseph Johnson of Winteringham.February
3rd 1900The London Standard confirmed that the Board of Trade had recently confirmed the NLLR Order, authorising the light railway from Scunthorpe to
Whitton, Winterton, and Winteringham.February 3rd 1915Mr Joseph Wass conducted a sale of the fixtures, fittings and furniture at the Post Office,
at 2pm.February 3rd 1922The Swell, steam drifter built at Winteringham for the admiralty, sold to Grimsby Seine Net Co Ltd, Grimsby (Samuel
Franklin, manager) and converted for seine net fishing.February 3rd 1937Laying turf on bowling greenFebruary 3rd 2007Library Theatre
Group perform "Happy Jack" at Village Hall.February 4th 1665Widow Bradley's probate inventory showed her worldly wealth at nearly
£70.  It included the fishgarth at £10February 4th 1729The most valuable item on John Holms probate inventory were 5 cows, two horses, and a
pig valued at £24; February 4th 1844HMS Anson arrives in Hobart, Tasmania, with 499 convicts, including Winteringham's John Button. 1815:
Hannah born to James (waterman) and Martha Johnson; 1827: Frances Jane born to Frances (straw bonnet maker) Bell, a resident of Hull.February 4th
1881Emma Glover pleaded guilty of concealing the birth of her child at Winteringham on 11th November 1880.  The judge said that as she had been in
prison for two months already, he should simply order her to be further imprisoned for a fortnight without hard labour.February 4th 1913Mrs Bratton
had triplets.  They were the first set of triplets locally for which the new "maternity benefit" was paid.  It had been introduced on
January 15th 1913 at £1-10s (equivalent to about £120)February 5th 1669(1670)Elizabeth West's probate inventory showed she had many farming
implements and animals, and also "torves and coles."February 5th 1671 (1672)Simon Goodwin's probate inventory included a great deal
of farming equipment and animals too, plus lots of table cloths, napkins, and besheets.  He also had £2 worth of household goods at
"Killinholme."February 5th 1847BRICKS! BRICKS! BRICKS!200,000 very superior kiln and clamp bricks for sale; also a quantity of 9 inch
paving bricks, fronting stocks, and tiles of all descriptions - Enquire William Marshall, Brickmaker, WinteringhamFebruary 5th 1908At Winteringham,
a great improvement has been made at West-end, in the widening of the top of Marsh-lane, which has been accomplished by taking in a strip of Mr T.
Robinson's orchard.  The improvement had been talked of for over 60 years.February 5th 1949The Scunthorpe and Frodingham Star reported
that Rev C W Bailey was the new Rector February 6th 1873A case was brought before the Queen's Bench with regard to rates liable on Read's
Island.  The point centred on whether Read's Island should be regarded as part of Winteringham (and therefore liable to rates to support the poor of
the parish) or, in effect "nowhere" and therefore not liable to rates.  It was decided that it did indeed, belong to Winteringham
Parish.February 6th 1880WINTERTON PETTY SESSIONSFEB. 6: Before SIR R. SHEFFIELD, and the Revs. J. E. CROSS and W. CHAPMAN,
Esq..............William Bell and Harriet, his wife, of the Bay Horse Inn, Winteringham, were summoned by P. C. Baines for being drunk on their
premises on 30th of January and were fined 10s. and 9s. 6d. costs....................Samuel Ashton, of Winteringham, was charged with stealing
a quantity of wood, value 6d., the property of Robert Kendall, on 3rd inst.  Prosecutor stated that on 2nd inst. he had 13 plum trees lying in his
orchard.  On the following day he missed one about 12 feet long, and gave information to the police.  He identified the pieces now produced as his
property.  P.C. Baines said he found the wood cut up in the prisoner's back kitchen.  Prisoner pleaded guilty and was committed for 21
days.February 6th 1889Arrivals at Grimsby Docks included the Anne from Winteringham.February 6th 1892The Yorkshire Gazette published an
obituary of Rev Thomas Rudston-Read who had died of influenza aged 81 at Withyham in Sussex.February 6th 1907Report of Dixon Davies re GCR v
L&Y at Winteringham;February 6th 1907Hull Chamber of Commerce resolved to petition against the development of Winteringham Haven, as it must be
detrimental to the port of Hull.February 6th 1907At a special meeting of Goole Urban Council, held in private, it was resolved to petition against
the proposals to develop Winteringham Haven.February 6th 1907Philip Barley of Hatfield pleaded guilty to breaking 3 panes of glass at
Winteringham.  It was done "as a lark" to frighten some Irishmen.February 6th 1945Mr Barratt stationmaster went to
GortonFebruary 6th 1947 All blocked again. [Snow]February 7th 1907Spilman and Glasier, auctioneers, have sold old china belonging to the
late Mrs Knowles for £70 to ££80.February 7th 1920Rev Potts letter to the Hull Times was published.  The week before, an article had appeared
stating that the Marquis of Lincolnshire's approaching sale of his Winteringham estate, his gift of the school and of the almshouses was true in the first
fact, wrong in the second as he had never had anything to do with the school, and the third was "somewhat premature."February 7th 1920An
article in the Hull Daily Mail, inspired by the impending sale of Lord Lincolnshire's Winteringham Estate, quoted a letter from a former resident of
Winteringham, telling of the fields that were in a high state of cultivation between the Sluice Road and the Humber that had now been washed away, and that
there was now talk of joining Read's Island and the south bank!February 7th 1941HMS Vanguard's guns scored a direct hit on a German Dornier
as it attacked a convoy the Vanguard was escorting.  (No details of where this took place is given due to wartime restrictions).February 7th
2011The ship Trans Frej ran aground on the north bank of Read's Island in high winds.  It had been grounded in Swedish waters three years
earlier.February 8th 1862Following the disturbance and killing of geese belonging to Charles Burkill, PC Stevenett discovered the culprits - two
dogs - but as he couldn't get hold of them, he was unable to state to whom they belonged.February 8th 1906Diarist: Lowson got ship into
HavenFebruary 8th 1906Putting new floor in Temperance HallFebruary 8th 1908A report in the Hull Daily Mail quoted Captain Ayre of the
Winterton Fire Brigade's report of a fire at Mr S Leaberry's Farm at Winteringham Marsh on 21st January.  A telegram had been received about 7pm
asking for the fire birgade engine.  The engine set off after a few minutes delay due to the oil lamps failing to light for some time, but another one was
borrowed, and of the three stacks that were ablaze, one was saved.  There was plenty of water, and everything worked well apart from a hose bursting,
which was temporarily tied up with string.February 8th 1913LS newspaper reports that triplets were born to Mr and Mrs Edward Bretton in
Winteringham - all boys - and the first in the village to claim for maternity benefit.  Sadly, one triplet died after 4 days.February 8th
1947No buses or mail could get through.  Bread came via Light Railway.  WI cancelled during the snow.February 9th 1672Michael
Farrow's probate inventory valued his worldly goods at almost £34.  Fowre sceps of bees were worth 13 shillings and 4 pence, and the lease on halfe an
oxgang of land and the corne sowne with the land reddy to sow was valued at £4-10s-0d.February 9th 1839Inquest held following the finding of the
body of Frederick Pickersgill in the Haven the previous day.  He had gone missing on January 31st.  A verdict of accidental death was
recorded.February 9th 1906Lindsey Cottages all let; February 9th 1906Station House finished; February 9th 1919KIA: C A Ogg,
Railway operating division;February 9th 1947Both Church and Chapel closed owing to snowstorms and still snowing!February 10th 1653The
Probate inventory of William Shankster, husbandman, revealed that among his various animals he had six hens and a cockerel;February 10th
1899Leonard Thompson of the village, placed an advert for a miller's cart in the Stamford Mercury.February 10th 1911In the obituary of
Thomas Forster an Essex antiquarian, mention was made of one of his ancestors - his great grandfather John Forster of Winteringham who died in 1809, and whose
poems were published in two booklets in 1797.February 11th 1843At Barton Petty Sessions, John Button was committed to trial at Kirton for stealing
clothing from the vessel "Hope" whilst lying in Winteringham harbour.  The clothes belonged to Mr T Gibson, the captain.  The process
eventually led to John Button being transported to Australia for this offence.February 11th 1879The Wesleyan Band of Hope held a meeting in the
Wesleyan Schoolroom, about temperance.February 11th 1881At Winterton Petty Sessions William Marshall was fined 10s for allowing a steam engine to
be erected on his premises less than 25 yards from the road.  It had been erected 24 yards from the road.February 11th 1907A concert was held
in the Temperance Hall, followed by a dance until 2 am.  Miss Waddingham accompanied the many acts on the piano.  Proceeds amounted to about
£7.February 11th 1947Trip to Leeds Pantomime cancelled. [snow]February 12th 1736Elizabeth, the six-month-old daughter of Rev Thomas
Adam and his wife Susanna, died this day.  She is interred in the Chancel of Winteringham Church.February 12th 1819It was reported that a
sheep and two sacks of corn were stolen from Winteringham "a few nights ago" and there was reason to believe that they had been taken to
Hull.February 12th 1858Elopement foiled!  A respectably dressed couple, acting as man and wife from Winteringham booked in at the Waggon and
Horses, Barton, prior to crossing to Hull.  An irate villager, also from Winteringham, arrived in Barton, making anxious inquiries respecting his wife who
had left home that very morning with another man.  He engaged the services of PC Dewey, and together they went to Barton Railway Station, where a few
minutes later, the eloping couple arrived, purchased two tickets, and on boarding the train were attacked by the irate husband!  PC Dewey intervened and
persuaded the woman to return home with her husband.  No names were revealed in the report!February 12th 1887A letter in the Nottingham
Mercury listed all the shoemakers who had made a name for themselves in other fields, chiefly writing.  In the extensive list was the name of John Foster
of Winteringham, described as "wrote poems, chiefly relgious, 1798."February 12th 1935Body of young man found on Humber
side.February 13th 17922-year-old John Todd died following a smallpox inoculatuion.  The parish registers note that he was the only one from
all those inoculated.  February 13th 1819Edward Button died in Winterton Workhouse, and was buried at Winteringham by Lorenzo Grainger.
Edward had been a brickmaker and pauper. February 13th 1857Mr Marshall advertised his brickyard for sale.  The bed of clay was of first
quality, and stretched to 8-10 acres.  He also advertised floor bricks and 9 and 12 inch squares for sale.February 13th 1863Several local
villages, including Winteringham, adopted the Local Government Act during the week.February 13th 1880Samuel Ashton was found guilty of stealing a
felled plum tree from Robert Kendall, and pleaded guilty.  He was imprisoned for 3 weeks.February 13th 1909Henry Day was charged with stealing
hay from Thomas John Havercroft on February 4th.  The bench heard that Mr Havercroft had been moving hay the previous day and that some of the hay had
been dropped on the road, and was picked up by Mr Day.  PC Hubbard had shown Mr Day the footprints he had left close by the stack.  However, the
bench didn't make a conviction, though they did require the defendant to pay costs of 7s 6d, and be bound over.February 13th 1935Inquest on
body of young man found on Humber side the previous day.February 13th 2005Beckwood FC 1 - 8 Winteringham FC League 1; February 14th
1675Sarah, the widow of Sir John Wray, the Lord of the Manor of Winteringham, and then widow of Viscount Fanshawe, married a third time, at the Temple
Church in London to George Saunderson, 5th Viscount Castleton, who thereby became Lord of the Manor at Winteringham.February 14th 1867Bennett
Sewell, one of the surveyors of Winteringham, was fined 10s plus 8s 6d costs for depositing 14 heaps of stone on the road "to the danger of people
travelling on the road."  Some of the stones were withing 18 inches of the "rutway."February 14th 1867A case against David Reed
(8) and his mother, Dorcas Reed, by Ellen Robinson was dismissed.  The boy was accused of stealing a shawl, and giving it to his mother who received it
knowing it to be stolen.February 14th 1896J Sutton advertised for a working foreman for a 400 acre farm, to board 3 men, and for his wife to rear
poultry.February 14th 1905Coal dug at Tinkle MillFebruary 14th 1906Miss Ethel Mary Bray of Winteringham, married Scunthorpe builder
Joseph Waddingham Beacock at the Wesleyan Chapel.February 14th 1907At a meeting of Brigg RDC it was decided to accept the offer of Mr Sutton on a
property of which he was trustee.  It was to exchange one small piece of land for another in order to be able to straighten the highway.  The place
where this was in the village wasn't stated.February 14th 1935An inquest was held on the body of Hull trawlerman John Clinton Desmond, who,
along with 7 or 8 other crewmen were pitched into the water when the trawler "Edgar Wallace" hit a sandbank off Hessle the previous night.  It
had been to Bear Island, setting off on December 20th.  John's body had been taken from the water near Winteringham.February 16th 1883Rev
Grieg of Barton gave a lecture on "Charles Kingsley" in the Temperance Hall.February 16th 1899Mrs Knowles, widow of the Rev Knowles,
advertised for a sitting and bedroom in a pleasant part of Hull from about the 11th March.February 17th 1854A letter from Brigg complained that the
"packet company" boat from Brigg, which had received great support from other places, including Winteringham, had recently replaced their steam
screw-powered boat with a slow horse drawn one along the Ancholme, and in consequence the Railway Company was picking up a lot of passengers at 2s a trip to
Hull.February 17th 1882Members of the church choir gave a concert and raised £9 for church purposes.February 17th 1913Dancing class
startedFebruary 18th 1868Mr Banks Stanhope presented petitions in favour of the sale of liquors on Sunday from (among other Lincolnshire villages)
Winteringham.February 18th 1913The Bishop of Lincoln consecrated an additional quarter-acre to the churchyard.February 18th 2007Graham
Boanas attends Winteringham Chapel & receives 2 cheques totalling £250 from sponsored walk and from collection at a christening.February 19th
1841A letter appeared in the Stamford Mercury, referring to some very accomplished brickwork.  The correspondent thoughtt it so good that it must have
been a sample of "the Winteringham bricklayer."  (It apparently was not, in this instance.)February 19th 1886Walter Bell, sailor,
was fined £1, with £1-4s costs when found guilty of assaulting PC Everitt.February 19th 1921For using a very lame horse for work in a turnip field,
William Sutton was fined £1, and his farmworker 2s 6d.February 19th 1925The Diarist reported on 4 whist drives held in February 1925!  Of
these one named “Jimmie Sewells Whist drive” raised the most cash (£15).  The same diarist had reported that Jimmie had his foot cut off in a
farm accident the previous 6th December.February 20th1527. I John Pyburne of Wyntryngham, seke of body. My body to be buried in the churche of all
halowis in Wyntryngham, and my best beist to my mortuary after the maner of the countre. To our Lady warke of Lincoln xijd. To the hie alter of Wyntryngham
xijd. To the kyrke warke of Wyntryngham iijs. iiijd. I will that ther be too lyghtes founde before our Lady, and thereto I gyve xiijs. iiijd. To John, my sone,
viij markes, and a howse that I dwell in, late purchest of John Spynethorn, and a plough with the drawght. To William my sone viij markes and my howse by the
churche. To George my sone viij markes, and ij howses with a lath. To Jenet, Elen, Esabell, and Marget my doughters. To Thomas my sone one howse called Tryppe
howse, after the decesse of my wiffe. To Robert Williamson a shoed carte, [etc.]. All ther howses be fore witte and gyven to my children, I will that Margarett
my wiffe have them for terme of her lyve; and I will that she have the ruell and orderyng of all my cheldren with their partes to they come at lawfull age,
[etc.]. To Alice Abye. To Alice Abye the yonger. The resydue of my goodes to Margarett my wyffe, the wiche I ordene my executrix. Witnes herof, Mr. Thomas
Myddilton; sir Nicholas Hewerson; Nicholas Robertson; Robert Vessy; James Wryght; Richarde Abye; Thomas Thomson; Robert Esterfild; with moo.February
20th 1913Mary Brumby's maths books, suggest these prices from Mr Andrew's shop...Tea 2s 4½ per lb (12p); Sugar 3¼d per lb (1½p); Cheese 18s 8d
per stone(!) (93p); Biscuits 9d per lb (4p)February 20th 1954Winteringham and Whitton Parish Councils wanted to convert the 1½ miles of track for a
road, but Lindsey County Council refused to sanction it.February 21st 1879THE CONVICT PEACE. - Police-constable Robinson, who so successfully
arrested Peace at Blackheath, is a native of Winteringham, and was for a considerable number of years employed as labourer at Sand House Farm, near
Appleby.February 21st 1883WINTERINGHAM  SERVICE OF SONG. - On the evening of 21st ult. a service  of song on "The Pilgrim's
Progress" was rendered in a  very hearty manner by the Primitive Methodist choir  from Frodingham. The proceeds, which were not very large, go
to the benefit of the Temperance Society,    On Wednesday evening Mr Robt. Brown, jun., F. S. A.,  gave in the Temperance Hall, by special
request, a lecture  on " Parliamentary Representation, Past and Present."  The lecturer, in his usual interesting style, traced the
history of the House of Commons and its electors from  the earliest times, and said that down to the year 1429, in  the reign of Henry VI., the House
of Commons was elected by the resident householders of England, so that household suffrage in counties is no innovation, but merely a return to the ancient law
of the country. The  lecturer then alluded to the evil effects of a highly restricted franchise, gave some amusing instances of proceedings in the famous
"rotten boroughs," referred to  equal representation under Cromwell, to the vain attempt  of Pitt to reform the House of Commons in 1782,
and to  the Reform Acts of 1832 and 1867, and concluded with an eloquent appeal to those who would hereafter receive the  franchise to exercise it
well and worthily. At the close a unanimous vote of thanks was accorded to the lecturer, and the proceedings closed with a similar compliment to  the
chairman, Mr W. N. Marshall. February 21st 1906Jabez Spencer was sent to prison for begging at Roxby.  He had said that he was tired of living
without work and intended finding some at Immingham Dock [Ed: Immingham Dock was just beginning to be built at the time]February 22nd 1878Mr R
Otter of Winteringham's tender of £322 was accepted, being for the alteration of the police station at Winterton.  He beat six other
tenders.February 22nd 1883Bell v. Dougherty. - The plaintiff, a publican at Winteringham, sued defendant, a publican at Goole, for 19s 3d for keep
of a horse for three days.  The plaintiff said a man took the horse to his house and left it there the time stated, and alleged that the defendant
belonged to the horse and would pay for it.  Defendant denied any knowledge of the affair.  Plaintiff was nonsuited.February 23rd 1845Rev
Francis Swan died.  He had been Prebedary of Lincoln, Rector of Winteringham, and Vicar of Kirton near Boston (all at the same time).February 23rd
1892Death of John Otter, builder and mason, responsible for a significant part of the church restoration in 1851, and many of the headstones in the
churchyard.February 24th 1562Edward Wensley became the first boy to be recorded in the baptisms of the Parish Registers; February 24th
1955Winteringham was in the grip of wintry weather.February 25th 1773It was announced that a Burgage messuage or tenement, a maltkiln, stables,
outhouses, pastureland in the Marsh, Low Groves, Rotton [sic] Sikes, and Western Green; were to be sold, the property of the late Edward Holgate.  No date
for any sale was given.February 25th 1881THE PROPOSED RAILWAY BETWEEN BRIGG AN D LINCOLN. 'The following correspondence appears in a
contemporary : - Sir, - May I express a hope that the promoters of this scheme may be induced to consider the propriety of extending the proposed scheme, so as
to continue their line from Brigg alone; the Carrs in a northerly direction? The Ancholme banks afford a straight level line from Brigg to Ferriby Sluice, and
I should imagine it would be greatly to the advantage ofthe few large proprietors who own those banks to make them over as a free gift to the Railway
Company, on the sole condition of accommodation being provided for the different villages. A line such as I have suggested, would pass throng the parishes of
Elsham, Worlaby, Bonby, Saxby,  Horkstow, and Ferriby. The coal traffic to those villages as well as the transport of agricultural produce and farming
requisites would be considerable, and the same line would afford equally convenient accommodation to Broughton, Appleby, Roxby, Winterton, and Winteringham,
that is if the stations were arranged with due care. A line thus made would open out a large tract of country and a considerable population, now almost
destitute of railways.  It would be obviously a wise course to extend the line from Ferriby along the Humber bank to Barton, and then connect it with Hull
or Grimsby, via New Holland.  I enclose my card, but subscribe myself - C.W.M..Sir, - A letter appeared in Tuesday's Lincolnshire Chronicle signed
"C.W.M.", advocating the extension of the above across the Carrs in a northerly direction, Which must end at Ferriby Sluice by reason of coming in
contact with the Humber.  Now, the proposed line would run through the parishes named, but, in each instance, the railway station would be a great
distance from the villages. If the proposed line from Lincoln was to join the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway at Scawby, and then continue
northwards through Scawby village, Broughton village, Appleby village and to Winterton, it would be of great service, and would give direct communication to a
large number of the now isolated inhabitants with Lincoln. Not only would this be the  case, but a junction would be formed with the Trent and Ancholme
Railway at Appleby, thus giving communication with Hull, Grimsby, &c. ,  on the one side, and Doncaster, Frodingham, &.c., on the other. - A line
of this description would be of immense advantage to the district as well as commercially.-Yours, &C., M. W.February 25th 1901The Elizabeth
arrived in Hull Victoria Dock from Winteringham.February 25th 1910"I do not want to harm the woman.  I said I would not.  I cannot
kill anything.  I cannot do it.  I don't kill flies.  Should a moth fly into the house, my wife must kill it; I cannot.  I can bring my
father and my mother, and my four brothers and my three sisters, and my uncle and my aunts, and my cousins, to prove that I am a man of peace.  I am not a
man of blood at all.  I never hurt anybody in my life."  These were the words used in the Scunthorpe police-court on Friday by Walter Herbert
Robinson, law clerk, who was arrested on a warrant for threatening his wife Martha Elizabeth, at Winteringham and he was remanded in custody until Monday, so
that he could, as he desired, bring witnesses, "who knew that he was anything but a murderous man."  The facts were that on Wednesday his wife,
who has property, applied at the Court for a separation order, and, after giving evidence of frequent desertions, and the fact that she had kept him for yen
years, was awarded a maintenance order of 5s per week, but no separation.  Prisoner, who had been a law clerk in Birmingham, went to her shop at
Winteringham on Thursday afternoon, and forced himself in.  Mrs Robinson was then talking to ex-police Inspector Andrews, of Sheffield, who was
negotiating for her business.  Defendant then said he should have killed her years ago, and said he would kill her yet.  He stayed in the house with
Mr Andrews while the woman went for a warrant, and he remarked to the ex-police Inspector, "You don't know what I have in my pocket?" to which
the witness replied, "And I'm sure I don't care."  On Monday defendant was bound over for twelve months.February 26th 1810Mr
T Sewell, 53, shopkeeper, died.  The Hull Packet commented "Having shut up the shop, he went into the house, and sat himself down, desiring his wife
to fetch the money out of the till; on her return, he was a corpse."February 26th 1860WINTRINGHAM Two sermons were preached on Sunday last
[26th February 1860] in the Wesleyan chapel by Mr Mumby, of Scartho, when upwards of £11 was collected on behalf of the chapel funds.February 26th
1907Mrs Lavinia Margaret Knowles, widow of the Rev Charles Knowles, left estate of the gross value of £5,332-12s-10dFebruary 26th 1907The Great
Central Railway lodged an objection to Goole Council having a say when their Bill to develop Winteringham Haven goes before a Parliamentary
Committee.February 26th 1923The Lord Mayor of Hull and Professor Kendall argued for a Humber Tunnel, preferably with a portal in the direction of
Winteringham.February 27th 1740John Foster born, Winteringham.  He was to become a shoemaker, published poet, and private in the North Lincoln
Militia fighting in the American War of Independence.February 27th 1860WINTRINGHAMThe high wind on Monday [27th February 1860] dislodged many
tiles from the housetops, making it dangerous to persons passing along the streets.  A great many slates were also blown off the church.February
27th 1878A huge auction at the Bay Horse included the sale of the Bay Horse AND the Ferry Boat Inn, plus shops, houses and land.February 27th
1934First snow stormFebruary 27th 2008Winteringham has an earthquake ... epicentre at Market Rasen and 5.4 on the Richter scale.  No-one
hurt, but villagers were advised to check their buildings for any damageFebruary 28th 1726Mary Waddingham, daughter of George and Anne, was
baptised.  George Waddingham was noted in the Parish Register as a Quaker.February 28th 1908At Brigg yesterday [28th February 1908], Ellen
Johnson and Annie Crawford, Shrewsbury, were charged on remand with stealing, at Brigg, £26 from Charles Brumpton, retired farmer, Broughton; also with being
drunk and disorderly and assaulting PC Credland at Winteringham.  Superintendent Reed traced the prisoners to Winteringham and there informed PC Credland
of the occurrence.  After midnight that officer arrested them for being drunk and disorderly.  Both were violent and assaulted him.  When taken
into custody one of the women threw something away, and later it was discovered to be £25 10s tied up in rag.  The charge of assault was dismissed, and
for drunkenness a fine of 13s including costs was imposed.  On the other charge they were committed for trial to the Quarter Sessions.February
28th 1919Whist Drive at MaltkilnFebruary 29th 1724Presentation Deed, Winteringham Rectory, John Fosse MA (Nicholas Sye, decd). Patron: Thomas
Saunderson of Sandbeck (Yorkshire), esq.
Have you tried the other Winteringham Websites?Winteringham News,
Don Burton World of Nature,  Photo Archive (modern photographs of the village), What the Papers have said about Winteringham (since July 2004), High Resolution Historical Photographs, Winteringham Film Archive, Winteringham Nature Site, Winteringham Recipes,
Winteringham Camera Club, Winteringham Village Hall, Winteringham Chapel
If you have difficulty using the “Contact Winteringham” button, then simply cut and paste NorthLincs@mail.com
into your email.
