The Women's Liberation Music Archive | Feminist music-making in the UK and Ireland in the 1970s and 80s
The Women's Liberation Music Archive
Feminist music-making in the UK and Ireland in the 1970s and 80s
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
HomeAbout the archiveBlog postsTalks, presentations, interviewsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZGone but not forgottenIndexContributing material to the archiveUsing WLMA material, copyright policies, disclaimerAcknowledgementsPressWhat’s new in the archive?Current eventsMusic & Liberation – ExhibitionContact the archive
Welcome to the Women’s Liberation Music Archive!
This project documents and celebrates the wealth and diversity of the feminist music-making of the 1970s and 80s and demonstrates its importance in the political and social context of that era. As in other social movements and political struggles, cultural activism was a major part of the Women’s Liberation Movement that began in the late 1960s. In a great burgeoning of creativity, feminists fused artistic activities with politics to develop and express feminist ideas. Women’s music, film and theatre groups, art and theatre proliferated throughout the 1970s and 80s.
Feminist bands, musicians and related projects are archived here in a collection of written and oral histories and memorabilia. This includes photographs, videos, recordings, gig lists, lyrics and musical scores, press clippings, flyers, posters, weblinks and manifestos that testify to the creativity of the Women’s Liberation Movement.
If this is your first visit to the site we hope you will find it an interesting and useful resource – or, if you have visited before, that you will enjoy the way it has been developing since its launch on May the 1st, 2011.
Information about bands, musicians and musical projects is gathered under names listed alphabetically on the A – Z pages above. The ‘search’ field will direct you to all pages featuring the object of your search. On the right-hand side of the blog posts page you will find a list of links to relevant websites about women’s ongoing music-making, feminist activism past and present, plus other archiving projects, enabling you to follow up information found in other pages.
A huge ‘thank you!’ to everyone who has made the archive possible through generously contributing material to the archive. As can be seen, there is quite a lot of information on some musicians, bands and projects and little or none for others. If you can help the archive to grow and to fill the gaps please contact us. All support in helping the archive to be as comprehensive and inclusive as possible is much appreciated.
Our collection of artefacts is housed by the University of Bristol Special Collections library, in conjunction with the Feminist Archive South. To view the online catalogue of this material, please visit http://oac.lib.bris.ac.uk/dserve/ and use the reference number DM2598. Visits to the collection can be arranged through the library. Students, researchers, activists and anyone interested in the feminist music-making and politics of the 1970s and 80s are welcome to make enquiries.
Your feedback is always welcome!
You can make a donation to help the archive securely through Paypal. Just click on the WLM button button below! You can donate any amount of your own choosing – we are unfunded so all support is welcome and much appreciated! All donations are used only to cover the running costs and develop the project, in accordance with our not-for-profit principles. You have the reward of knowing you are supporting feminist history!
CLICK THE CLENCHED FIST TO DONATE!
Special offer! ‘Music and Liberation: A Compilation of Music from the Women’s Liberation Movement’, the CD created for the ‘Music and Liberation’ exhibition is now available from the Women’s Liberation Music Archive  Comprising twenty tracks by some of the feminist musicians from the 1970s and 80s – Abandon Your Tutu, Bad Habits, Bright Girls, Fabulous Dirt Sisters, Feminist Improvising Group, Frankie Armstrong, Friggin Little Bits, Ginger and Spice, Hi-Jinx, Jam Today, Mistakes, No Rules OK, Ova, Proper Little Madams, Sadista Sisters, Siren, Spoilsports, Stepney Sisters, York Street Band, plus an informative booklet – this is a unique opportunity to revisit or discover some of these sounds – or introduce friends and family to the music and activism of the era! All proceeds from the CD will be used for the upkeep of the Women’s Liberation Music Archive. Please contact us if you would like a copy  at wlmmusicarchive@gmail.com.
‘This archive is … an invaluable record of how in the early days of the Women’s Liberation Movement the message was in the music as much as in the spoken and written word.’ – Sheila Rowbotham
Share this:Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to email (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)Click to print (Opens in new window)Like this:Like Loading...
5 thoughts on “Welcome to the Women’s Liberation Music Archive!”
Cathy Welsh on May 1, 2013 at 5:09 pm said:
Hello Happy Beltane I was just looking
at an email from Frankie the other day re The Sirens Scotland I will try to get stuff together Cathy Welsh
Reply ↓
wlmmusicarchiveuk on May 3, 2013 at 1:11 pm said:
Hi Cathy
Great to hear from you – thanks. We’d love to have info about The Sirens and indeed any other Scottish women music-makers, so look forward to hearing from you! x
Reply ↓
website on February 1, 2014 at 4:46 pm said:
Hey there! I’ve been following your site for some time now and finally
got the courage to go ahead and give you a shout out from Lubbock Tx!
Just wanted to say keep up the great job!
Reply ↓
Vickie Cummins on October 7, 2014 at 6:02 pm said:
What a fabulous site – just when I thought I was scratching around in the dark, I’ve found you! Am studying an MA in Music Industry Management and focussing on female musicians so will definitely be contacting you soon for advice and guidance!
This is a truly excellent archive – thank you so much, for a million different reasons.
Reply ↓
Omsonic on February 28, 2015 at 6:30 pm said:
This is fantastic – just found you online – thank you. I am going to include your link as part of the resources for an exhibition I am curating for Sound and Music from their British Music Collection. Will be in touch again soon I am sure. Poulomi (www.usurp.org.uk)
Reply ↓
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:
