Romsey UK, Woodley Net
Contact Us
Contact Woodley Net
Guestbook
Email
Woodley Net
Info Pages
Anorak Man
Famous Romsey People and VisitorsPast
Romsey Shops and Pubs Police
Reports Local Links and
Info Roy Romsey Worldwide Travels
Romsey History
Romsey Mystery Photos
Stuart Thorpe Page
Woodley Scouts
Woodley Village Hall
Old Photos (a-p)
Photo Gallery Page
Banning Street 1953
Carnival Events
Floods in Romsey 1960 and 2014
Football Teams
Ganger Camp
Hunters Inn Past Locals
Jack O'Lantern Garage
Jam Factory
Luzborough Camp
Plaza Secondary School
Past People from Romsey
Pubs in the Romsey Area
Old Photos (r-w)
Romsey Borough Council 1960s
Romsey Olde Photos
Schools in Romsey and Crampmoor
Strongs Brewery
Trains and Stations in Romsey Area
US Army in Lockerley 1944
Villages near to Romsey
Woodley People 60's/70s
Woodley and Crampmoor
Recent Photos
2016 Beggars Fair
2016 Carnival Bed Races
2016 Lantern Parade
2016 Picnic in the park
2016 Summer Carnival
2016 Winter Carnival
Memorial Park
Recent Romsey News
Royal visit to Romsey 2007
Royal Wedding in Romsey
War Horse Event 2015
Woodley and Romsey Wildlife
Media
Romsey Revisited on Facebook
My Radio Caroline Website
Radio Woodley in 1974
Romsey YouTube Videos
Griffiths the chemist Church St
Romsey 1960's ?
Romsey girl in Britain's Next Top Model
Competition..
A
young lady from Romsey Olivia Wardell who went to school in Romsey
and then Barton Peveril College in Eastleigh is one of the twelve
contestants in this years "Britain's Next Top Model Competition".
Webpage
Olivia
shares a love of fashion with her 82 year old Grandmother and is the
youngest in the competition. At just 18 she will stop at nothing to
get to the top and make her modeling dream a reality.
Olivia has just finished her A Levels in
English, Textiles and Photography and aspires to become a role model
for women in the fashion industry just like her idol Kendall Jenner.
The new series, which airs on Lifetime,
features some of the UK’s biggest names in fashion including Millie
Mackintosh, Estee Lalonde, Savannah Miller and Matthew Williamson.
The new series begins on March 16 at 9pm, on
Lifetime, available on Sky 156, Virgin 208, TalkTalk 329 and BT 329.
Latest news from ioLight portable microscope
After weeks of anticipation now is the time. You can now
purchase shares in ioLight by going to our Crowdcube pitch
at
www.crowdcube.com/iolight.
2016 was an exciting year for ioLight. Riding on the success of
our 2015 Crowdcube campaign we closed our first sales just 5 months
later in April. Even this was later than we planned, because we took
the decision to redesign the prototype to make it more robust. However,
the redesign has paid off and feedback from early customers is good,
with some impressive pictures on our website.
READ MORE
Customers include
The Eden Project has bought
ioLight microscopes and says they are “awesome”.
Cambridge
University says “it produces high-quality images for rapid
and high-resolution inspection of many samples, and is
extremely convenient to use.”
Bayer Animal Health
invited ioLight to exhibit on its stand at the London Vet
Show.
In 2014 Richard Williams (Romsey)
and Andrew Monk patented the ioLight Mobile Microscope.
Their ioLight microscope
is easily portable - it fits in a rucksack or jacket pocket
- and captures beautiful images of plant and animal cells, Images
are displayed instantly on your iPad or iPhone making them simple
to share or paste into your homework or Nobel Prize winning
paper.  Resolution is better than 1 micron (1 thousandth
of a mm) and gives x200 magnification on a 10" screen and
even more on a larger screen.  In summary the ioLight microscope
is the perfect pocket partner for any scientist, student or
educator
Abbotswood Romsey Community Association
Website
Abbotswood Community Centre Build Progress
It’s coming!! Earlier this week the Abbotswood community association
trustees accompanied by TVBC Cllr Alison Johnston, Barbara Wyant –
Abbotswood community development officer and Marianne Piggin
-community engagement officer, had the fantastic opportunity to
visit the site of the new Abbotswood community centre
TO READ MORE
Click Here
More coloured photos of Romsey in 1947
Click above to view
Plaza Secondary School  reunion
Another Facebook update from Steve "B"
"Romsey's 15th Boxing Day Pre 1976 Car &
Bike Meet charity update - Hi folks, just to let you know that monies
have continued to roll in from my very generous customers, thank you
all very much.
JustGiving donations have also continued &
thanks to all who have donated there recently. The good news is that
we are way up on last year, not only have we smashed the 4k mark for
the 1st time ever but we've smashed the 4.5k mark & the total currently
stands at £4,717.91 !! 2 weeks left until I close it down on the 31st
Jan, so still time to give if you enjoyed the show but missed the 30
collection tins you can donate at
justgiving.com/fundraising/MRB-STEVE-BIDDLECOMBE#
My polite letter to the owners of Cafe Nero &
Costa were given in last Monday ( after emails to headquarters drew
no joy ) but still NOTHING, not a reply nor a donation, from the 2 businesses
that probably benefit most from the event itself on the day. After 4
years of trying, they still won't donate even the smallest amount as
a nod to the event & the business it brings them. I'm a little fed
up of local businesses making so much from my hard work but well chuffed
that the good & generous have helped us reach this great total,
thank you all.
Thanks for your time.
Steve B. "
Film extras wanted in Southampton area
Men and Women wanted for a major feature film
shooting in Southampton Area in 2017. Good rates of pay. You must be
over 16, legally allowed to work in the UK with National Insurance number
and live in the Southampton area (no travel expenses will be paid)
Fishermen and Fishmongers wanted urgently for
a major feature film. Shooting in the Southampton area in early 2017.
Men and women all welcome to apply. Ideally you'll have sea fishing
experience and ability to gut and handle fish confidently. Good rates
of pay. All ages but you must have a National Insurance number and be
over 16 years old.
Lloyds customers should be on the lookout for
fake bank letters
The convincing letters being sent are a replica
template from Lloyds and include their logo, address and signature from
a customer service representative.
READ MORE...
Romsey Lantern Parade
The Parade was a real public participation event
last December.
About a thousand people with three hundred hand made lanterns walked
through Romsey, making this one of the centre pieces of the evening.
The band and choir made it truly enjoyable parade for everyone. Of course,
before the parade all the lanterns have to be made including those of
the sponsors who support the parade each year.
Click below for photos
Lantern Parade Website
Romsey Winter Carnival Success...
On Saturday 26th November 2016, the Winter Procession
took place, starting from the Crosfield Hall car park.
Bell Street, Market Place, Church Street and
The Hundred was closed from 17.30 for the Xmas Lights switch on and
procession.
Click thumbnails below for Chas
Burnett's excellent photos
Reg Calvert Book
This
is a well-written account of the early business and family life
of Reg Calvert by his daughter Susan who lived for a while in
a flat over Tates TV shop in Church St, Romsey. He was well
known for the dances he organised in the Drill Hall in Station
Rd, Romsey
A must read available at
Amazon.
Romsey's Pocket Microscope inventor
In 2014 Richard Williams (Romsey) and
Andrew Monk patented the iolight Magnificent Mobile Microscope.
Their microscope is easily portable - it fits in a rucksack
or jacket pocket - and captures beautiful images of plant and
animal cells, Images are displayed instantly on your tablet
or smartphone making them simple to share or paste into your
homework or Nobel Prize winning paper.  Resolution is better
than 1 micron (1 thousandth of a mm) and gives x200 magnification
on a 10" tablet screen and even more on a larger screen.
In summary the ioLight microscope is the perfect pocket partner
for any scientist, student or educator NOW AVAILABLE CLICK
BELOW
Watch ioLight
microscope demonstration
HERE
9th on playlist
Romsey's  new
author has 2nd book out
Jane Barter Reeves new book Entitlement is
another gripping read that follows the astonishing actions of
a husband who believes that he is entitled to his former
wife's inheritance, and who doesn't take no for an answer!
Here, you can find out more about Jane and her books, as
well being able to contact the author and visit Amazon to purchase
copies for yourself.
Buy on Amazon
Molly Irvine writes about
Jane's 1st book
We have a local budding author in Romsey.
Her name is JANE BARTER REEVES . This is her
first book, just published . I've just finished it, and it's
a great read. In fact, I couldn't put it down ! Can't wait for
her 2nd book to come out ! I've known Jane all her life, and
I know how hard , and what long hours she's been working on
this. So I'd love Romsey readers to support Jane, and help her
to sell cartloads of books. ! Congratulations Jane, and get
on with the next one please ! xxxx
Buy on Amazon
Wanted!
Urgently need old photos of the
Latimer Arms pub in Latimer St. Romsey.
Also Whales Mini Supermarket in Winchester
Rd halfway between the two railway bridges. Now Cycle World.
I can scan any photos for you if
required.
If you can help please click
HERE
to contact Woodley Net
Woodley Village Hall Community
Coffee Shop
Next date
Friday February 24th
10pm - 12 noon
Pop in to our friendly, informal
Coffee Shop. Enjoy a chat and a cup of coffee with a slice
of cake. Meet new friends, or why not have a hand or shoulder
massage.
For more info ring  01794 519495
Fun, Fun Fun at the Mayors Picnic
Romsey's Royal Wedding
Romsonian's were out in force to greet the Queen
in Romsey on 25th of June 2016 at one of the biggest weddings of the
year. The Queen and Prince Philip arrived for  the wedding of the
Honourable Alexandra Knatchbull, the daughter of Lord and Lady Brabourne,
to Thomas Hooper. Prince Charles and Princess Anne were also at Romsey
Abbey for the service.
Click below for Chas Burnett's excellent photos
Flying Scotsman passes through Romsey
Click For Video 5th on Playlist
Greenways (Mandarin Chef) Restaurant in 1963
Click below to view photos
Memorial Park Play Area now reopened
Romsey War Memorial Park play area has
now reopened. The work included painting the play equipment,
upgrading the playground surface and seating. Also a new inclusive
roundabout was installed, which has been specially designed
for wheelchair access.
Click
Here for photos
Hoddinott Close in Abbotswood wrongly
named
It
seems that the newly built Hoddinott Close on the Abbotswood
estate has been wrongly named by one and all. The Post Office,
Test Valley Council and Google maps all spell it with one "d".
Even the road sign is wrongly spelt, see left.
Hoddinott Close was named after
Ernest Edward Hoddinott of Moorcourt Farm Romsey who was
a Councillor on Romsey Extra Parish Council from its establishment
in 1895 until 1949 (a period of 55 years).
Romsey Good Neighbours
Registered Charity No. 1119751
We are a group of volunteers who
offer to take elderly,infirm or disabled people to attend
a hospital, doctor, dentist, optician or any other medical appointment
The service is only provided in Romsey, Romsey Extra, Ampfield
and BraishfieldWe can also provide transport to enable
people to visit relatives in hospital
To request Transport
Please telephone a Co-ordinator
on one of the numbers belowbetween 9:00am and 5:00pm Monday
to Friday if possible giving atleast five days clear notice
(not including weekends)
08450 94 96 71
08450 94 96 72
08450 94 96 73
08450 94 96 74
08450 94 96 75
08450 94 96 76
Please try an alterative number if
you fail to reach your first choice
All co-ordinators work independently
from the same client details and list of driversso please
ensure you make a note of the co-ordinator and drivers names
dealing with your journey
Lockerley Mechanical Society
We are an informal group with interests
including trains both real and model, vehicles, boats, planes,
farm equipment ... in fact anything involving oil and spanners.
We meet at 11.00am on the first Monday of each month
at the Coffee Shop in Lockerley Memorial Hall and we also
hold a quarterly pub lunch.  We are presently researching
the history of Lockerley WW2 US Army camp. New members are
very welcome. Contact Ian McKeand on 017 94 34 10 05
or just turn up at the Coffee Shop.
Luzborough Camp memories
Hi Romsonians, Mike Thomas here
in the USA. I would like to ask anyone that has pictures
and/or information on LUZBOROUGH CAMP from the late 40's
and early 50's to send them to me at
woodleyuk@gmail.com
I am preparing to write a memoir and would like to add pictures
and to possibly jog my memories of those early days when
I lived there. For large photo click
HERE  Luzborough camp was located at the
corner of Luzborough Lane and Botley Rd, just south of Baddesley.
Thank you in advance for your help, Regards ... Mike
Click photo for lots more.
US Army in Lockerley 1944
Lockerley was the site of a huge storehouse
for the US Army prior to the Invasion of Europe, established
in October 1943 and largely obsolete by October 1944 by
which time supplies were being sent direct to France. The
depot was behind St Johns Church off of East Tytherley Rd
and comprised 15 miles of sidings and 134 covered sheds.
After the US army left and a period of use by the Royal
Army Ordnance Corps it closed in the 1950s and now nothing
but slight earth disturbance remains.
Stuarts Cleaners
Specialising in commercial &
office cleaning.
Free no obligation quotes.
Tel: 07977 752500
Serenity
Grave
Tending Services
A
professional grave tending service that offers seasonal,
monthly, and one time visits.
email:
strt_thorpe@yahoo.co.uk
or call 07724 684941
About Romsey UK
Romsey is a small market town in the county
of Hampshire, England. It is 8 miles (13 km) northwest of Southampton
and 11 miles (18 km) southwest of Winchester, neighbouring the village
of North Baddesley. Just under 15,000 people live in Romsey, which has
an area of about 4.93 square kilometers. Romsey lies on the River Test,
which is famous for fly fishing, predominantly trout. It is one of the
principal towns in the Test Valley Borough. A large Norman abbey dominates
the centre of the town. Romsey was home of the 20th-century soldier
and statesman Lord Mountbatten of Burma, the 19th-century British prime
minister Lord Palmerston, and the 17th-century philosopher and economist
William Petty. Romsey is twinned with Paimpol in Brittany, France, and
Battenberg, Germany.
Romsey HistoryMiddle Ages to the Civil
War
The name Romsey is believed to have originated
from the term Rūm's Eg, meaning "Rum's area surrounded by
marsh". Rum is probably an abbreviated form of a personal name,
like Rumwald (glorious leader).
What was to become Romsey Abbey was founded
in 907. Nuns, led by Elflaeda daughter of Edward the Elder, son of Alfred
the Great, founded a community — at his direction — in what was then
a small village. Later, King Edgar refounded the nunnery, about 960,
as a Benedictine house under the rule of St. Ethelflaeda whose devotional
acts included chanting psalms while standing naked in the cold water
of the River Test.The village swelled alongside the religious community.
The Vikings ran-sacked Romsey in 993, burning down the church. But the
village recovered, and the abbey was rebuilt in stone in about 1000.
The religious community flourished as a seat of learning, especially
for the children of the nobility. A market was established outside the
abbey gates.The Normans built the large current abbey that dominates
the town (between c. 1120 and 1140) on the site of the original Saxon
church. By 1240, 100 nuns lived in the convent.
King Henry I granted Romsey its first charter.
This allowed a market to be held every Sunday, and a four-day annual
fair in May. In the 13th century, Henry III permitted an additional
fair in October.
The lucrative woollen industry appears to have
powered Romsey's growth during the Middle Ages. Wool was woven and then
fulled or pounded with wooden hammers whilst being washed. It was dyed,
and then exported from nearby Southampton.
Romsey continued to grow and prosper until plague
struck the town in 1348-9. The Black Death is thought to have killed
up to half of the Romsey's population of 1000. The number of nuns fell
as low as 19. Prosperity never returned to the abbey. It was finally
suppressed by Henry VIII during the Dissolution of the Monasteries in
1539. Many religious buildings were destroyed during this time.But
the abbey was saved from demolition because part of it was a parish
church for the people of Romsey. The town purchased the abbey from the
Crown for £100 in 1544. Ironically, the part of the abbey that had saved
the abbey, the church of St Lawrence, was then demolished.
By the mid-16th century Romsey's population
was about 1,500; its woollen and tanning industries fuelled growth.
On 6 April 1607 King James I granted the town a charter making it a
borough. This gave official status to an informal local government that
had been running the affairs of the town since the Dissolution of Romsey
Abbey in 1539. Romsey could now have a corporation comprising a mayor,
six aldermen and twelve chief burgesses, with a town clerk for 'office
work'. Furthermore, there was to be a local law court under a Court
Recorder, assisted by two sergeants-at-mace. Over all, was the prestigious
position of High Steward, the first of whom was the Earl of Southampton.
(Lord Brabourne, grandson of Lord Mountbatten of Burma, is the current
High Steward.)
Romsey changed hands several times during the
English Civil War. Both Royalist and Parliamentary or Roundhead troops
occupied and plundered the town. Royalists remained in control of the
borough until January 1645.
18th to 20th centuries
The town's woollen industry survived until the
middle of the 18th century, but was beaten by competition from the north
of England. However, new fast-growing enterprises soon filled the gap
with brewing, papermaking and sack making, all reliant upon the abundant
waters of the Test.By 1794 a canal connected Romsey to Redbridge
— at the mouth of the River Test — and Andover to the north but within
50 years had largely fallen into disuse. Industry continued to grow.
Romsey was a reasonably large town for the early 19th century: its population
was 4,274 in the first census of 1801, compared with just 8,000 for
Southampton.
Despite the arrival of the railway in 1847 the
expansion slowed and whilst its population had grown to 5,654 in 1851
it then stagnated and by the time of the census half a century later
(1901) the population was just 5,597.
Lord Palmerston, the 19th-century British
Prime Minister, was born and lived at Broadlands, a large country estate
on the outskirts of the town. His statue stands in the Market Place
outside the Town Hall.
The Willis Fleming family of North Stoneham
Park were major landowners at Romsey from the 17th until early 20th
centuries, and were lords of the manors of Romsey Infra and Romsey Extra.
Romsey was famous for making collapsible boats
during the 19th and early 20th centuries, invented by the Rev. Edward
Lyon Berthon in 1851. The Berthon Boatyard in Romsey made the boats
from 1870 until 1917. They were used as lifeboats on ocean-going liners.
Broadlands later became the home of Lord Mountbatten
of Burma, known locally as "Lord Louis". He was buried in
Romsey Abbey after being killed in an IRA bomb explosion in Ireland
on 27 August 1979. In 1947, Mountbatten was given his earldom and the
lesser title "Baron Romsey, of Romsey in the County of Southampton".
After Lord Mountbatten of Burma died, his titles passed to his elder
daughter, Lady Brabourne, who thus became Lady Mountbatten of Burma.
Her eldest son was styled by the courtesy title "Lord Romsey"
until he inherited the title of Lord Brabourne in 2005.
The Prince and Princess of Wales spent the first
night of their honeymoon at Broadlands.Embley Park, a country estate
located on the outskirts of Romsey was the home of Florence Nightingale,
most famous for her pioneering work as a nurse and sanitary reform during
the Crimean war and for laying the foundation of modern nursing. Florence
is said to have had her calling from God whilst being sat under a giant
cedar tree in the grounds of Embley Park on 7 February 1837. The site
is now home to a private school, reminders of Florence's formative years
are all around the house and estate.Nightingale is buried in the
family vault at St. Margaret Church in East Wellow, located on the outskirts
of Romsey. Her coffin was taken by train from London to Romsey Station
where a horse drawn carriage completed the journey to the church for
a simple funeral at the request of Florence.
During 2007 Romsey celebrated the 400th Anniversary
of the granting of its Charter by King James I with a programme
of events from March through September, including a visit on 8 June
from the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh. Subsequently. the cost of
the visit has created some local political controversy
Present
Romsey today appears to be in sound economic
health. Whilst there is significant commuting out of the town for work
- particularly to Southampton and Winchester, and also, to some extent,
London - it could not be described as a dormitory town.Whilst heavy
industry in the town has long since declined, three industrial and trading
estates focus mainly on service industries and small-scale manufacturing.
Three major scientific and high technology employers — Roke Manor Research,
Southampton Science Park and IBM — have large establishments in the
nearby countryside.The recently renovated town centre contains a
Waitrose, and Aldi supermarkets, a small department store, and over
100 other retail outlets of various kinds, including both high street
chains and local independent shops.There is concern about the decline
of local independent shops due to the high business rates, and threat
from large supermarkets.
Sadler's Mill
Watermills have played an important part in
Romsey's history as an industrial town. The Doomsday Book of 1086 provides
the earliest record of watermills in Romsey, which identifies three
(possibly four) mills.Sadler's Mill is probably the best known of
Romsey's surviving mills and is apparently the only mill to be developed
on the main course of the River Test. The existence of Sadler's Mill
is first recorded in the 16th century, when it was owned by the manor
of Great and Little Spursholt. Functioning as a corn and grist mill,
it has passed through a succession of owners including Lord Palmerston
who rebuilt it in 1747 and sold it in 1777 to one Benjamin Dawkins.
Following another succession of owners it returned to the Broadlands
estate in 1889. Milling ceased in 1932, when the mill building became
redundant. The Broadlands estate sold the building in 2003, at which
point it was close to collapse having been derelict for many years.
The new owners, Anthony and Sarah de Sigley, restored the building in
2005, rebuilding much of the original structure. During the restoration
evidence of an earlier structure was found; carbon 14 dating established
the age of this to be circa 1650.Governance
Romsey has its own parliamentary constituency.
Its current MP is Caroline Nokes of the Conservative Party. Elected
in the general election on 6 May 2010, she ousted the Liberal Democrat
MP Sandra Gidley with a 4.5% swing to Conservative from Liberal Democrat
and a majority of 4,156 votes. Gidley had held the seat since a by-election
in 2000.Notable buildings
Romsey Abbey
Romsey Abbey is a Norman abbey, originally built
as a Benedictine foundation, housing a community of Benedictine nuns.
The abbey is open daily to visitors as well as being the Anglican Parish
church of Romsey.
King John's House
King John's House & Tudor Cottage was allegedly
a hunting lodge used by King John of England whilst hunting in the New
Forest. However, the existing building dates from much later. It does
contain a number of extremely unusual and exciting historical features,
including medieval wall decorations and graffiti, as well as a floor
made of animal bones.
Places of interest
Broadlands - Stately home
Sir Harold Hillier Gardens - Gardens and arboretum
Mottisfont Abbey - National Trust property with
nationally renowned rose collection
Paultons Park - Children's theme park
Romsey Rapids - Leisure pool and gym
Events
The Mayor's Picnic takes place
in early-mid summer and is held in Romsey's Memorial Park. There is
music performed by local schools, a variety of stalls, and the popular
Duck Race, in which numbered plastic ducks 'race' each other along the
river Test, to be scrupulously retrieved before awarding a prize to
whoever chose the winning duck.
The Beggars Fair is held in
the streets and pubs of Romsey on the second Saturday in July. It is
a free festival featuring all types of music, together with dance and
other street entertainment.Romsey Carnival takes place during a
week in July with the highlight being the procession through the streets
of Romsey on the final Sunday afternoon.
The Romsey Show is a large
agricultural show that takes place every September at Broadlands. The
show is one of the oldest in England, held annually since 1842. In addition,
Broadlands has twice hosted the CLA Game Fair, the largest agricultural
show in the world, most recently in July 2006.
The Winter Carnival takes places
each year when Romsey's Christmas lights are switched on.
The Romsey Arts Festival occurs
every 3 years, showcasing talent from in and around the local area.
Romsey Charter Celebrations
1607-2007 Programme of Events ran from 21 March to 30 September 2007.
Romsey Classic Car Show is
a charity event that has been running on Boxing Day since 2002, attracting
hundreds of pre-1976 vehicles to the town centre car parks.
Still broadcasting today
