Home - The Young Foundation - A leading independent centre for disruptive social innovation
Putting People at the heart of social changeFind out more
Search for:
Join our mailing list
Sign up for Newsletter
Email Address
Page printed from http://youngfoundation.org/
The Young Foundation
About Us
Who we are
History
Contact Us
Office space and room hire
Our Work
#MY100
Structural inequality
Social Innovation & Investment
Youth & Education
Health & Wellbeing
Gender
Places
Our Teams
Research
Work with Communities
Inequality Dynamics & Changemaking
Transnational
News & Events
Events
Press releases
News
Publications
Blog
What we do
Research
We want to change the way people think about society’s most pressing problems, who can solve them, and the possibiliti ...
Find out more
Work with Communities
We support people and organisations to take action together to create fairer communities where everyone can thrive.
W ...
Find out more
Social Innovation & Investment
We are a leading centre for social innovation, venturing and investment, with a long track record of developing innovati ...
Find out more
Latest News
Publication
Share to Know: Furthering peer-to-peer and collaborative learning methods
Print date: February 2017
Author: Louise Foreman
Print date: February 2017
Author: Louise Foreman
A guide sharing a range of examples and recommendations about how education and learning practitioners can apply and sustain peer-to-peer methods in their own work based on learning from the Share to Know European exchange project.
Publication
Valuing Place: The importance of place for understanding inequality and taking action in Wales
Print date: February 2017
Authors: Dr Hannah Green, Dr Mary Hodgson
Print date: February 2017
Authors: Dr Hannah Green, Dr Mary Hodgson
Read our latest research report, funded by the Welsh government, into the lived experience of over 350 people in three Welsh communities; Port Talbot, Connah’s Quay and Aberystwyth.
blog
Young Foundation supports Uprising’s latest venture to create One Million Mentors
For a young person today, working out who you are and what you want to do is one of the key challenges you face upon entering adulthood. For those that face inequalities, this process can be especially laden with pitfalls and barriers. Our mission at The Young Foundation, to confront the inequalities that undermine our economy and corrode our wellbeing, means that we work on and with a fantastic…
→ Read More
press releases
New research with Welsh communities shows deep loyalty to places they live, but barriers perpetuate inequality
Date: 7 February 2017
Date: 7 February 2017
Today The Young Foundation launches Valuing Place, its Welsh Government funded research into the lived experience of over 350 people in three Welsh communities; Port Talbot, Connah’s Quay and Aberystwyth.
projects
Bounce Back 2: Building Youth Resilience in Newham
Boosting youth resilience through a new action learning programme especially for Newham young people aged 9 to 11.
Twitter feed
Twitter
RT @ndefriend: If in 2017 we can achieve half what @BritSciAssoc young innovators have achieved in an hour inequality is FINISHED!!! @the_y…
1 day ago
blog
Share to Know: Learning processes are at their best when they are social
Louise Foreman reflects on the Share to Know learning event on peer-to-peer and collaborative methods we hosted last week.
blog
Amplify Cymru: breaking down the barriers to understanding what a community thinks and feels
Andy Dunbobbin, Community Research for Connah’s Quay on the Amplify Cymru programme gives his reflections on what the programme has meant for him, following the launch of our Valuing Place report last week.
Ventures we have started and supported
Left
ADA
Arrival Education
Bethnal Green Ventures
Dementia Adventure
Franklin Scholars
Grandparents Plus
Economic & Social Research Council
Essential Safeguarding
Future Reach
Inclusive Classrooms
Inspirational Youth
Language Line
National Extension College
The Open University
Phoenix Education Trust
Social Life
Proversity
Right to Succeed
Space Unlimited
School for Social Entrepeneurs
TalentEd
Talentino
Think For The Future
Uprising
Which
Right
Putting people at the heart of social change
About Us
People
History
Victoria Park Square
Vacancies
Contact Us
Our WorkInequality Dynamics & Changemaking
Places
Youth & Education
Health & Wellbeing
News & Events#MY100
Events
Press releases
PublicationsBlog
© The Young Foundation 2017
reception@youngfoundation.org
+44 (0)20 8980 6263
T & C
Privacy
