Young Friends General Meeting | Young Adult Quakers in Britain
Young Friends General Meeting
Young Adult Quakers in Britain
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About YFGM
Who we are
Newcomers
Photos
Blog
Our Concerns
Mental Wellbeing
Trident
Events & Registration
Upcoming Events
YFGM Registration – Edinburgh, February 2017
Suggested Contributions
Documents
Minutes & Annual Reports
Forms & Policies
Roles Information
The Young Quaker
Contact
Donate
Search for:
Home
Hello! We are Young Friends General Meeting,
a national community of young adult Quakers in Britain.
YFGM is a good way to make links with other Young Adult Quakers in your area – our members regularly meet up between gatherings, and plan extra social weekends too. YFGM is open to everybody between the ages of 18 and 30ish, and although we’re based in Britain we welcome visitors from overseas. We welcome newcomers of all varieties, from those who have grown up in a Quaker family, to those who are simply Quaker-curious, or have recently started attending a Quaker Meeting.
For more information see About YFGM or email yfgm@quaker.org.uk
Register to attend February Gathering here!
Upcoming events:
***PLEASE NOTE THAT THE DATE FOR APRIL PLANNING WEEKEND HAS CHANGED***
2017
24 – 26 February, YFGM Gathering (at Edinburgh meeting house)- All welcome!
31 March – 2 April, Planning Weekend (at Jesus Lane meeting house, Cambridge)
26 – 29 May, YFGM Gathering (at Sheffield Quaker meeting house) – All welcome!
8 – 10 September, Planning Weekend
20 – 22 October, YFGM Gathering – All welcome!
Locations for later dates in 2017 to be confirmed
Register to attend February Gathering here!
Share on Tumblr
Meet the YFGMers!
Hi, I'm Siobhan. I'm a trainee solicitor and YFGM has been my home away from home for the last 8 years.About YFGM Young Friends General Meeting is the national organisation for young adult Quakers in Britain.
Our main events are the three General Meetings which take place at Quaker meeting houses around the country in February, May and October each year.
These weekends are open to anyone aged between 18 and 30ish who is a Quaker, or interested in Quakerism, and are a chance to meet like-minded people and find out more about, and influence, what young adult Friends in Britain do.
SubscribeJoin our mailing list for updates on YFGM events, and information and opportunities for young adult Quakers.
Recent Posts
Youth And Students Against Trident Replacement
Musings of a YFGM Intern
Musings of a YFGM Intern
Christmas Musings of a YFGM Intern
Musings of a YFGM Intern
Links
Britain Yearly Meeting
The Young Quaker
Young Friends General Meeting   —   YFGM Office, Friends House, 173-177 Euston Road, London NW1 2BJ   —   Registered Charity No. 1064763
Tel: 020 7663 1050   —   yfgm@quaker.org.uk
