Derelict London - Derelict London homepage
Home
Homes
>
Homes North of the Thames
Homes South of The Thames
Derelict homes now Demolished
Factories & Warehouses
>
North of the Thames Factories and Warehouses
South of the Thames Factories and Warehouses
Offices
Public Buildings
Various Buildings
Cafes
Cinemas & Theatres
Cemetery & Churches
Hospitals
Hotels and Restaurants
Pubs
>
North London
Derelict East London Pubs
>
East London Pubs from Dereliction to Demolition
East London Pubs - Dead Pubs to Conversion
East London Pubs Back from the Brink
Central London
West & South West London
South & South East London Pubs
Graffiti & Streetart
Music History Landmarks
Public Pools and Baths
Misc
Post Offices
People
Porticos and Pillars
Wildlife
Shops
Signs and Murals
Toilets
Vehicles
War - Bunkers and Pillboxes
London Transport
London Riots 2011: The Aftermath
Sportsgrounds
Waterways and Wharves
Boats
Long Lost Burial Grounds
Dereliction and Beyond...Then and Now Photos
London's Long Lost Sports Grounds
Kent (venturing outside the M25)
Spring 2016
Summer 2016
Autumn 2016
Winter 2016/7
Derelict London - The Book
Contact
Guestbook
London's Lost Rivers - The Book & Website
Author's Guided Tours of London
Derelict Limehouse & Poplar
Woolwich Alldayer
Lost Docks of Wapping
Isle of Dogs
Grand Surrey Canal
London's Lost Rivers Tours
Silvertown
Bow Creek: River Lea from Bromley by Bow to Leamouth via Canning Town
Croydon Canal
Specials
Sponsors wanted!
Cookies Info
To advertise on the Derelict London please click here. The Derelict London website  is  kindly supported by:
"Paul Talling's mesmerising website.... John Betjeman would have been proud of him"Whats On in London"Genius"Danny Baker BBC London
Derelict London is an unusual photographic portrait (of over 7000  pics by Paul Talling) of the nations capital
Welcome to the Derelict London website This website has now been around for over 14 years. In that time my random wanderings around London have often been described as psychogeography and that little known penchant for walking around derelict buildings with a camera has been branded urban exploration (aka urbex).  This site  doesn't fit into any category or belong to any forum. There are no rules. This is not a compilation of familiar tourist sights, as another of those is hardly needed, but a depiction of an (often un-picturesque) view of everyday life in LondonThe site is obviously not taken to illustrate London at its most beautiful or most successful, the name derelict London is a memorable name for a website though not everything within this site is of derelict areas and everyone has their own definition of derelict......99% of these pictures were taken by myself during many miles of walkabouts around the great capital. After years of travelling via car or public transport I realised just how little I had seen of London. (ie just stepping back and looking at buildings and people). I've enjoyed putting this site together and will continue to add more pics. Try not to be too critical because I'm no professional photographer. Neither is this some trendy art student project..............Any places you think should be on this site? Let me know. Also info (however trivial) or stories/personal memories on any of the buildings would be appreciated.Apart from the odd tip off most of the locations on this site are on here because I randomly stumbled upon them when walking down the street.Pics are frequently added to this site  so please keep coming back!  Also check out my other websites: www.londonslostrivers.com  and  www.derelicteurope.com. Feel free to befriend me on Facebook and "Like" the  Derelict London Facebook Fanpage , "follow" the Instagram Page and  @derelict_london on Twitter and maybe see you on one of my guided walking tours.PAUL TALLING  February  2017 - All Photographs on this website are Copyright!!
Visitors to this Website so far
=
‘I love walking in London,’ said Mrs. Dalloway, ‘Really, it’s better than walking in the country.’Virginia Woolf, 1924
Book Here for the Derelict London Walking Tours  with Author Paul Talling (as featured in 101 best things to do by TIME OUT London)
CLICK ON A SUBJECT ICON BELOW TO SEE THE PHOTO GALLERIES:
"Although it has quainter pleasures, much of the appeal of Paul Talling's excellent little book Derelict London is in how it seems to trace the skeleton of a dead city while it is still in apparently rude health.In a city so devoted to making fast money, and busily fighting a one-way class war under the rubric of "regeneration", sweeping undesirables and their buildings away to the outskirts, it is almost comforting that relics and ruins still cling on to its landscape, throwing workaday time into a spin. As much as it is an inadvertent vision of how London might look after a catastrophe,   Derelict London is valuable as a document of the one going on right in front of us." THE NEW STATESMAN
Paul Talling's Derelict London - all photographs are copyright © 2017Follow Derelict London on Facebook and Twitter
✕
