mySociety
mySociety
About
What we do
Freedom of Information
Better Cities
Democracy
Research
Events
Services
Blog
Contact
Donate
Join
us in Florence
for our third annual conference on the Impacts of Civic Technology, TICTeC
We help citizens demand better
In over 40 countries worldwide, our web tools and apps are breaking down the barriers around governments — find out how we can help you.
Freedom of information
When a citizen wants information from their government, it should be as easy as sending an email. And with Alaveteli, it is.
Run your own Freedom of Information website
Get started
Better Cities
New technologies and open data bring amazing possibilities for citizens — and the authorities who serve them. We’ve already started.
See what our mapping and reporting tools can do for you
Get started
Democracy
You shouldn’t need to be an expert to understand what your politicians are doing. Our tools make engagement easy.
Implement our parliamentary monitoring tools
Get started
What’s the impact?
Our research programme aims to prove what works
Become a partner
See if you’re eligible for free support and development
Our services for hire
Software development for your organisation
News
Latest posts
New on MapIt: Local Authority codes for England
8th February 2017 by Myfanwy
There’s a new piece of data on MapIt, and it wasn’t added by us. It’s tiny but useful, and it’s slightly esoteric, so bear with us and we’ll explain why it’s worth your attention. Local Authority codes come from the government’s set of canonical registers. They may not look much, but they’re part of a…
Our diary
Events
MERL Tech London 2017
Feb
20
Our Head of Research, Rebecca, will be co-hosting a session on the challenges and potential methods of conducting data collection activities through digital platforms. http://merltech.org/
mySociety
mySociety is a not-for-profit social enterprise, based in the UK but working with partners internationally. We build and share digital technologies that give people the power to get things changed, across the three areas of Democracy, Freedom of Information, and Better Cities.
About
Careers
Contact
Press
Privacy policy
Subscribe
Your donations keep our sites running
Donate now
mySociety Limited (05798215) is a project of UK Citizens
Online Democracy (UKCOD) a registered charity in England and
Wales, charity number 1076346, company number 03277032.
Github
Twitter
Facebook
