Computer Conservation Society
Computer ◆ Conservation ◆ Society
Home     |     About the CCS      |      News      |      Contact Details
Home
Events
CCS Projects
Other Projects
Journal
Tony Sale Award
Our Computer Heritage
Software
CCS Membership
Web Links
Just some of the machines and systems being restored to working order by the
Computer Conservation Society.
Next Events
Babbage and Lovelace
March 16th 2017 - London
The History of the Semiconductor Revolution
February 21st 2016 - Manchester
See events page for more information
Historic Document Rescue
From time to time the Society is approached by people who have come into the possession
of documents relevant to historic computers and who feel that they should
“go to a good home”.
Unfortunately the Computer Conservation Society is no longer in a position to
collect such material, though we can often suggest a suitable home for it.
If you have a need to dispose of historic material we suggest that you should first read
our guide Archives and your Personal Papers.
In particular, we should stress that a list of the document titles is essential before
any progress can be made.
News headlines
January 2017
CCS Visit to the Deutches Museum in Munich
Following the success of our Berlin visit we have booked a tour
of Computers and Microelectronics at the Deutsches Museum
in Munich at 11:00 on 8th April.
As with the previous trip there will only be two fixed points:-
Dinner on the 7th
The Tour on 8th.
To keep things simple, members are booking their own hotels and
making their own travel arrangements to allow for their own tourist activities.
Dinner will be at individual expense as will entry to the Museum,
the cost of the guide will be divided between those taking the tour.
Please let Dan Hayton
()
know by 14th February if you would like to join in.
Document Exchange within the CCS
Because CCS members use widely differing IT systems, difficulties sometimes arise
when documents are sent between members.
In an attempt to minimise such problems a page of guidance notes can be found
here.
November 2016
Making IT Work Conference
Making IT Work, a meeting on the practice of computer conservation,
will be held on 22-23rd May 2017.
The international meeting will be the first of its type and is organised
by the Computer Conservation Society and The National Museum of Computing.
Conference sessions with international speakers be on Monday 22nd
May at the BCS HQ in London and workshop sessions at
The National Museum of Computing on Tuesday 23rd May 2017.
For details, see here and
www.tnmoc.org.
Founded in 1989, the Computer Conservation Society is a joint venture between the
British Computer Society, the Science Museum and the Museum of Science and Industry
in Manchester.
Our primary mission is to preserve historic computers, develop awareness of the history
of computing, and encourage research.
We run many specialised projects, organise public lecture series, and publish a regular bulletin.
Membership of the society is open to all.
If you would like to join the society, please
click here for more information.
