Hoffi: Design Agency Cardiff, brand strategy, graphic, web design
Skip to main content
Main menu
Home
Work
Why
Workshops
Blog
About
Contact Us
Hello, we're Hoffi
An award-winning design agency based in Cardiff Bay. We work with businesses and organisations to develop brand strategies, brand identity and brand communications. Founded with a sense of fun, exploration, considered thought and experience, we produce outcomes that work socially, commercially and creatively.
About
Hoffi is a creative design agency that specialises in branding and brand development, using strategy and great design to achieve our customer’s goals. These goals vary from increased sales, greater staff retention through to more bums on seats, but they are always commercially focused.
We’ve built some great relationships since 2006 with many private and public sector organisations.
Relationships including developing and nurturing digital for Wales’ national theatre company; building brand strategies for the construction industry; and supporting the improvement of our transport infrastructure with Network Rail in Wales, to name just a few customers that we’ve listened to, questioned and guided through our design process in the last 10 years.
Andrew Thomas
Andrew is Technical Director at Hoffi looking into user experience and digital design projects. He has a keen interest in Kite Buggying, Tropical Fish and Gardening and he also dabbles in a bit of creative coding every now and then.
Follow him on Twitter @andrew_hoffi
Carwyn Lloyd Jones
Carwyn is Creative Director working on brand communications for Hoffi's clients. He has a real passion for photography and has been extending his cookery skills.
Follow him on Twitter @carwyn_hoffi
Julian Sykes
Julian is Brands Director dealing with strategy for our customers. He has an interest in social design through his work with thinkARK. He is also a keen rock climber and has been looking at how games can involve different social groups.
Follow him on Twitter @julian_hoffi
Ryan Bunney
Ryan is a Front-end Developer, working on all of our digital projects by bringing the interface designs to life. He's also responsible for prototyping projects in the early stages of the design process. While he's not practising with a Kendama, he experiments with JavaScript creating inspired artificial intelligence projects.
Our Process
DISCOVER
The Discover Phase is our opportunity to learn about your company and it's people, products and services. Using a number of creative tools and workshops.
MAP
The Map Phase begins to highlight opportunities that have arisen from the discover phase, understanding how these opportunities could relate to your market and/or customer.
CREATE
The Create Phase is where we begin to create the visual interpretation of your company's brand. Creating how it looks across different media, developing it's tone of voice and also looking at the the brand mark and it's typography.
GROW
Once the Create Phase has been created we then want to grow the brand and it's delivery with you. This work can include brand launches, extended brand guidelines, website design and development and general communication design.
Who are your customers?By Carwyn Lloyd Jones
Japan - when can I go back?By Carwyn Lloyd Jones
Should Adidas really sell Reebok?By Julian Sykes
The National Eisteddfod of Wales and their move to digitalBy Andrew Thomas
Why you should choose Open-SourceBy Andrew Thomas
Thoughts on choosing a theatre box office systemBy Andrew Thomas
Three questions to answer when rebrandingBy Julian Sykes
Brand content - quick and dirty video content editingBy Julian Sykes
Documenting a brand - tools to help crop images for websites By Julian Sykes
Who has made the most money?By Julian Sykes
Merry ChristmasBy Julian Sykes
The changing face of branding - What is branding?By Julian Sykes
Avengers Age of Ultron extended storylinesBy Julian Sykes
When do we change?By Julian Sykes
Shanghai and the festival of creativityBy Julian Sykes
+44 (0)29 2048 7941shwmai@hoffi.com© 2017 Hoffi Limited
Powered by Drupal
