Camden Keep Our NHS Public
CAMDEN
KONP
Camden
Keep Our NHS Public
Camden KONP
supporters were
among the tens of thousands who demonstrated against the
government's
attack on the NHS at the Tory party conference
in
Manchester on 29
September 2013
Camden KONP
does not believe that
hospitals, general practices or other parts of the NHS should be run by
private companies. Our main aim
is:
to
work to keep the original principles of the National Health Service,
with free
treatment for all provided by the state
The
NHS Health and Social Care Bill has become law, but the need for action
against government attacks on the health service has
not gone away. Opposition to spending cuts and the government's
backdoor privatisation of major parts of the NHS will continue until
the threat is abolished and the founding principle of state-run free
health treatment for all is restored. KONP backs 48 hour strikes by junior doctors
Keep Our NHS Public –
like the vast majority of the public
(almost 70 per cent in a recent poll) – is backing the junior doctors
in their series of 48-hour strikes in protest at the government’s
imposition of an
“unsafe” contract.
We believe the junior doctors are right when they say the
government is not telling the truth when it claims the dispute is about a
seven-day NHS.
The government has misrepresented data and continues
to lie about the seven-day NHS. A seven-day 24-hour emergency NHS already exists. But staffing levels
are already at the brink. What we really need is more funding, more
doctors, more nurses, more porters, lab staff and other healthcare
professionals.
We also believe the doctors are right
when they say the safeguards built into this new contract are inadequate. There
is a financial incentive for hospitals to overwork already tired doctors, as it
is cheaper to do this and pay fines than hire extra staff to cover the large
staffing gaps which are currently there in our hospitals. This is leading to
burn out and doctors leaving the NHS.
The government are not being truthful
when they are saying doctors are getting a pay rise of 13.5 per cent. They
are not. Most junior hospital doctors who do any out of hours on-calls will
lose out between 10-20 per cent. Working more unsocial hours and getting a pay
cut is demoralising – is that what the government wants?
Already we see that staffing levels are getting
dangerously low. The gaps in the rota for doctors and nurses are growing.  Doctors and nurses are being
asked to do more and more every day because the government are not employing
more staff. Frequently on a night shift a doctor is being asked to do the work
of three doctors and also being asked to act as a more senior doctor. This is
dangerous and puts our loved ones at risk.
Striking junior doctors are
defending a high quality NHS – an NHS run by well-supported staff who are able
to give of their best when caring for you. The government will attack the jobs
of other NHS staff next: underfunding core NHS services and privatising
lucrative areas.
The NHS is facing a crisis – but
it is a crisis of the government’s own making, brought about by its stubborn
refusal to adequately fund the NHS. The junior doctors are in the front line of
the fight to properly fund the health service. That’s why we support them and
why the public back them as well.  SUPPORT REINSTATEMENT BILL - DON'T LET GOVERNMENT DESTROY THE NHS
The
government is pressing ahead with the "reforms" in the Health &
Social Care Act 2012 (HSCA) which have thrown England’s NHS into a
destructive and dangerous reorganisation now teetering on the verge of
financial collapse. It has ended the universal right to healthcare, limited access to a number of services and abandoned the principle that
health care should be free
for all who
need it.
More and more contracts are being given to private
companies to squeeze profit out of services set up to look after
people who are infirm or ill. And billions of pounds that could be
spent improving frontline services are being wasted on costly legal and
management fees involved in the process of bidding for these contracts,
which have no place in a publicly run healthcare system and which the
HSCA needlessly introduced. These changes are happening gradually. Many of the private
firms that have entered the health service "market" still use the NHS
logo, so people are misled into thinking nothing has changed. That is partly
why the public has been slow to realise the huge scale of the changes
underway - that large parts of our health services are being broken up and
that, if we don't act quickly, our much-valued NHS will be destroyed. The NHS
Reinstatement Bill, which gets a second reading in parliament on Friday 11 March,
seeks to reverse the changes in the HSCA and enshrine in law the principles
that the NHS should be free for all who need it and that services should be
publicly run, rather being given to private companies so they can grab billions of taxpayers funding.The
bill is supported by 76 MPs including the Greens Caroline Lucas and
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. It has the backing of Keep Our NHS Public.
Its second reading will be on Friday 11 March and there
will be actions in support of the bill outside the Department of Health
and parliament from 9.45am. See events.
Ask your
trades union / party branch / pensioners group / WI branch / mumsnet / your
friends and family to support the NHS Bill.  Visit http://keepournhspublic.com/uncategorised/nhs-bill-take-it-to-your-union/   for a
model motion.
Nurses march on Downing StreetThousands
of nurses and supporters on the march to Downing Street in protest at
the government cut in student nurse bursaries. The Royal College of
Nurses says there is already a crisis with 10,000 vacant nursing posts
and withdrawing the bursaries will only add to understaffing,
which has huge implications for patient safetyOn
9 January 2015, thousands of nurses and supporters – including Keep Our
NHS Public – converged on Downing Street to protest against the shabby
government move to cut student bursaries for student nurses, midwives
and dietitians.Student nurses work full time hours
unpaid for half their three years of training. They spend the remaining
time on study assignments. They do not get student holidays. According
to the Royal College of Nursing, their unpaid work saves the government
more than their tuition fees. Eighty-five per
cent already take on jobs to avoid debts alongside their unpaid NHS
work. Taking away the NHS bursary will force many student nurses to
work 70-hour weeks. NHS protesters target Tories in Manchester
Thousands of NHS campaigners – including a big KONP
contingent from London – converged on Manchester on Sunday 4 October for the
protest at the Tory party conference.
Up to 100,000 people joined the march, called by the TUC to
demonstrate against the government’s austerity policies and the attacks on
union rights and the NHS.
The march had the backing of the People’s Assembly. Rights
groups said cuts in benefits  have
targeted the most vulnerable – including children, the elderly, the disabled,
the sick and the mentally ill, as well as the unemployed and low paid – while
the government has given millionaires a handout through tax cuts that will
vastly increase their wealth.
NHS unions were angry that staff are being laid off or
having to work longer hours for less pay. With rising costs, the government’s
five-year freeze in NHS funding means further severe reductions will have to be
made, which could see hospitals, A&Es and GPs surgeries  plunged into a deepening crisis this winter.
KONP campaigners argued that the crisis has been made worse
by the forced marketisation of services, which has allowed private companies to
grab billions of pounds of the taxpayer funded  NHS budget. The contracting out has taken more money away from frontline services
and given it to business consultants, accountants and lawyers.
Two-thirds of hospitals are already facing deficits
averaging £22 million. The overall NHS deficit is expected to reach £2 billion
this year.
Thousands of junior doctors also joined the protest to
signal their anger at the new contracts health secretary Jeremy Hunt is trying
to force through. The doctors leaders say pay cuts and longer hours will
result, and that patients could be put at risk if hours are lengthened further.
Len McCluskey, Unite general secretary, in a speech to the
rally at the end of the march showed the government was facing opposition. He said
the protest was "sending a very clear message" to the government that
a fightback was under way.
WAYS YOU CAN HELP DEFEND THE
NHS IN 2016
Part
of the Keep Our NHS Public contingent on the 100,000-strong Britain
Needs A Pay Rise march in London on 18 October alongside tens of
thousands of health service workers, including nurses and members of
the midwives union angry at the government's NHS pay freeze who had been on strike earlier in the week for the first time in the union's history   Say no to private companies running GPs out of hours service and 111 emergency phoneline Local
doctors treat thousands of patients every day. But if you - or a family
member gets ill at night or a the weekend, the GPs' surgeries are
closed. If you call for medical help, you will be told to contact the
out of hours (OOH) service.This vital service covers those
difficult times, outside normal weekday hours, when people are most in
need of urgent medical advice - or a doctor's visit.That's why it is important the way the service is run. Do
we want local doctors, through their local partnerships, to run the OOH
service? Or do we want it to be run by a big private company, cutting
the service to increas profits?Five boroughs - Camden,
Islington, Haringey, Barnet and Enfield - have taken a decision to
combine OOH with the 111 telephone helpline service throughout North
Central London. They are putting the contract out to tender without
asking the 1.4 million patients who will rely on the service what they
think about the proposal.Keep Our NHS Public groups in all five boroughs do not want
the service to go to a private company. We want local doctors - with
their expert knowledge - to run the service.
Non-essential surgeries such as Rhinoplasty/Nose Job and Breast Enlargement and Reduction should also be handled by private hospitals to releive unnecessary stress on the health service.
HAVE YOUR SAY ON THE FUTURE OF URGENT CARE
A draft
specification for the combined Out Of Hours (OOH) and 111 phoneline service in north London has
just been published. Several organisations, including Camden KONP and 38 Degrees,
have already condemned the size of the contract, estimated to be worth between £50 and £100
million. The service could be run by a federation of local doctors – as happens
in some London boroughs – but a contract that big is likely to exclude local
doctors groups and favour a big private company that would put profits before
patients. Think about the type of service and doctor you would want to call in the
middle of the night if someone, perhaps a child or grandparent, is ill
and you need help in an emergency.If you agree that local doctors groups should be allowed to run the service,
there is still time to tell the five north London Clinical
Commissioning Groups what you think. And, before it is too late, the
same
message needs to be delivered to the five borough councils Health and
Adult
Social Care Scrutiny Committees and the combined five boroughs Joint Health Overview and Scrutiny Committee.  Camden CCG http://www.camdenccg.nhs.uk/
Camden
health scrutiny committee http://democracy.camden.gov.uk/ieListMeetings.aspx?CId=634&Year=0 CARE UK HOLDS ON TO OOH SERVICE - FOR NOW
Delays over commissioning of the Out Of Hours (OOH) service in north London
means that the private company Care UK, which operates the service in Camden and
Islington, will keep running the service after its contract ends in March 2016.
Care UK will hold on to the service despite
fresh criticism of the OOH service and urgent care centres it
operates in north London after bad practices were revealed by an undercover
reporter in a documentary aired on ITV in July.  Care
UK’s OOH contract in Camden and Islington was due to run out in March
2016.  But continuing delays in the
procurement of a replacement to run the service means Care UK will now be given
at least a six-month extension of its contract until October 2016.
Save Our Surgeries! Fears are
growing that a number of local GPs practices are threatened with closure as a
result of the government’s latest squeeze on funding. The Bedford Square
practice has already closed, Belsize Priory will follow suit and King’s Cross
will shut in November. Camden health scrutiny committee has also raised
concerns over the future of a number of practices including Gower Place, Somers
Town, Brookfield Park and Rosslyn Hill. How many will be spared the axe or will
leave patients in the lurch is uncertain. KONP is concerned at government
moves designed to force out independent GPs and that – even if surgeries are
rescued – private companies such as Virgin and UnitedHealthcare are more likely
to take them over. Camden health scrutiny committee http://democracy.camden.gov.uk/ieListMeetings.aspx?CId=634&Year=0
SUPPORT HEALTH WORKERS ACTION ON PAY Health workers’ wages have fallen by between 12% and 15% since 2010 and this
year in England 60% of staff will get no rise at all. This leaves many of those
caring for patients on barely more than the minimum wage. Contact your local NHS workers and trade union reps to offer your
support. If you have trouble making contact let us know and we can pass your
enquiry on to regional trade union contacts who can help. http://www.unison.org.uk/at-work/health-care/key-issues/nhs-pay/home/
http://www.unitetheunion.org/news/unite-to-ballot-its-nhs-members-on-strike-action-over-insulting-pay-offer/
Health
workers protesting outside University College hospital in a day of
action calling for fair pay for NHS staff and an end to the
government's attack on workers' living standards
KONP/Health Emergency NewspaperHealth Emergency has teamed up with Keep Our NHS Public to publish a campaigning eight-page tabloid newspaper free to download. Printed copies available More copies available on order for a low price that just covers printing & postage. Contact KONP or ring 07497 434630. Send local stories for next issue to Health Emergency. ;,"sans-serif";">
Saturday
21 June 2014: Camden KONP joined the 50,000 anti-austerity marchers in
a protest against government cuts in health and welfare. Doctors,
midwives, nurses, radiographers and administrative staff were among the
huge contingent of NHS supporters staging a protest outside the
Department of Health in Whitehall before a rally in Parliament Square.
Camden KONP chair Candy Udwin said: “Privatisation of services is threatening to undermine the
NHS with more rationing of
operations, longer waits to see your  doctor, massive delays for hospital
treatment – and people having to pay charges. So if we want to save the NHS, we have to fight. We can’t let
the government get away with destroying it. That was the message of our anti-austerity protest.”LABOUR INQUIRY INTO NHS FUNDING
A
Labour inquiry has found that privatisation increases inequality, adding to calls for
the Health and Social Care Act 2012 to be repealed.
​ ​KONP supporters continue to campaign against
profit-making private health care companies having any role in the
future of a publicly funded NHS.
EU/US TREATY - STOP MULTINATIONALS GETTING THEIR CLAWS INTO OUR NHS
A
EU/US treaty, called the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership
(TTIP), currently being negotiated, will extend NHS marketisation - the
sell-off of large parts of it to private companies - and make reversing
the policy and restoring our NHS to public control extremely
difficult.The campaign against the TTIP is growing. Andy Burnham promised Labour would ensure an NHS opt out of TTIP
and it has been raised as a major issue at the TUC. http://www.theguardian.com/business/2014/sep/07/trade-unions-trade-deal-threat-to-nhs
KONP
is asking for increased pressure to keep health and social services out of TTIP.
Write to your MP and your Member of the European Parliament. And download the leaflet http://www.keepournhspublic.com/ pdf/ttip.pdfKONP is
also suggesting that local groups consider a campaign to presuade their
local authorities to declare the council a 'TTIP free zone'. There have
already been resolutions to this effect passed by a number of
authorities including Southampton, Oxford and Exeter city councils and
Lancashire county council. Advice
on how to plan a campaign and templates for a letter to sympathetic
councillors and a motion to put to the council can be downloaded
from the national KONP website.NHS Reinstatement Bill Peter Roderick and Allyson Pollock have launched consultation on a
new Bill to reverse privatisation of the NHS which can be used as part of our
campaign to reverse the Health and Social Care Act and to put the NHS centre
stage in the pre-election period
People's
Inquiry warns NHS is heading for collapse
The
NHS in London is "cash-strapped", "fragmented" and "unravelling",
according to the now published report of the People's Inquiry into the
NHS, which lays the blame firmly on government cuts.
At
the same time as it tightens its squeeze on funding, the government is
also handing over more and more health service contracts to private
companies that frequently lower standards to increase their profits.
The combined effect will be more hospital closures and and a greater
burden on overworked GPs and community services.
Camden
KONP submitted evidence to the inquiry. Read the full report and the
key recommendations for fighting the government and ending the
crisis
Camden Clinical
Commissioning Group governing body
meetings
Check
on the workings of the body that commissions Camden health services,
1pm-4pm, Conference Room, St Pancras Hospital, 4 St Pancras Way, NW1
0PE.
Papers here: >
For
details
of other Camden/London KONP meetings and activities, see Events.
'Proud of the NHS'
pin badge
A small pin to wear with pride
whether you work for
or use our NHS
1 pin £2.50 or 10 pins for £15 (including p+p)
http://www.keepournhspublic.com/index.php
Useful
campaigning information
Latest resouces on
the
Open Democracy site
http://www.opendemocracy.net/ournhs/ournhs/
brand-new-ournhs-guide-to-nhs-campaigning-and-resources
History of Camden KONP
Camden
KONP was founded to oppose the takeover of the Camden Road surgery by
UnitedHealth in 2008 - one of the first interventions by a major
private health company in the UK. (See photos from
a 2009 demonstration
.
In 2011,
UnitedHealth passed the
surgery on to The Practice plc. A year later, the Primary Care
Trust/NHS North Central London announced with only a few weeks' notice
that the lease of the premises
could not be renewed and the surgery would close on 13 April 2012,
leaving thousands of patients without a GP.
(For
a brief history of
Camden KONP see Background
story)
Camden KONP
submissions to Camden council's health scrutiny committee can be viewed
on the council website
Camden
KONP is
affiliated to
the national
campaign Keep Our NHS Public
(KONP) (www.keepournhspublic.com).
KONP has a Facebook site:
Events
Media coverage
Links
Background
story
Support
Camden KONP
Contact
info@camdenkeepournhspublic.org.uk
