Home — Knowhow Nonprofit
Cookies on Knowhow Nonprofit
We use cookies in order for parts of Knowhow Nonprofit to work properly, and also to collect information about how you use the site. We use this information to improve the site and tailor our services to you. For more, see our page on privacy and data protection.
OK
Skip to content. |
Skip to navigation
0
Knowledge bank
Studyzone
Tools and resources
How-to
Case studies
Events
The basics
You and your team
Your organisation
Funding and income
Campaigns and awareness
Leadership
Menu
Good advice, shared
Knowledge and e-learning for charities, social enterprises and community groups
Search
The basics
How voluntary organisations work, information about setting up a charity, and guidance on how to get started in the voluntary sector.
You and your team
Tips for developing yourself and your team and advice on how to make the most of human resources.
Your organisation
Being on top of day to day operations is fundamental to organisational efficiency and effectiveness.
Funding and income
There are many ways to bring money into your charity or voluntary organisation, from traditional fundraising (e.g. individual giving an...
Campaigns and awareness
How to mobilise support through awareness raising, campaigning and lobbying.
Leadership
The different forms of leadership in the voluntary sector and how to ensure effective leadership.
Studyzone
Training anywhere, anytime: online courses for the voluntary sector. Free to NCVO members, or available to buy.
Tools and resources
Practical tools and resources for use in the voluntary sector
How-to...
How-to guides on hundreds of topics, contributed by the Knowhow community.
Case studies
Case studies submitted by the community
Events
Browse events submitted by the Knowhow community, or promote an event of your own.
About us
NCVO Knowhow Nonprofit offers advice and support for voluntary organisations. Learn from experts and your peers, and share your experiences with the community.
More from NCVO
NCVO
Funding Central
UK Civil Society Almanac
How Charities Work
Investing in Volunteers
Investing in Volunteers for Employers
Institute for Volunteering Research
NCVO Mentoring and Befriending
Housekeeping
About us
Community guidelines
Contact us
Sitemap
Privacy
Terms and conditions
Accessibility
Follow us
Email updates
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
SlideShare
NCVO (The National Council for Voluntary Organisations) is registered in England as a charitable company limited by guarantee. Except where otherwise noted, NCVO licenses the content on this site under an Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International licence.
NCVO, Society Building, 8 All Saints Street, London N1 9RL | Registered company number 198344 | Registered charity number 225922
