LILAC :: Welcome to LILAC
register
login
SWANSEA UNIVERSITY (BAY CAMPUS) 10-12 APRIL 2017
Toggle navigation
LILAC 2017 Book your place Conference Programme Keynote Speakers Call for papers LILAC Lagadothon Venue for 2017 Awards Bursary
About LILAC Background Why come to LILAC Contact Us Conference Committee Hosting LILAC
Sponsors Sponsoring LILAC Our Sponsors for 2017
LILAC Archive LILAC 2016 LILAC 2015 LILAC 2014 LILAC 2013 LILAC 2012 LILAC 2011 Past Keynotes
×Close
Please login to your LILAC account
Username
Password
Forgotten your password? Click Here
Login
Forgotten your password?
You can use the form below to request a new password. A password will be sent to your registered email address.
Enter your username:
Request a New Password
Want to login? Click Here
Not registered yet?
Register today. With a LILAC account you can submit a paper to present at this year's conference, book your place, manage your order and be kept up to date with all the latest conference news and announcements.
Register
Close
LILAC 2017
SWANSEA UNIVERSITY (BAY CAMPUS) 10-12 APRIL 2017
FIND OUT MORE
BOOK YOUR PARALLEL SESSIONS NOW!
Parallel bookings will close on 10th March 2017
VIEW PROGRAMME
BOOK A PLACE FOR LILAC 2017
LILAC 2017 bookings must close on 10th March 2017
BOOK NOW
What is LILAC?
LILAC is the Librarians’ Information Literacy Annual Conference and is a firm favourite in the calendar of information professionals. The conference is brimming with new ideas, innovative teaching techniques, inspiring speakers and exciting social events.
Find out more
Present @ LILAC?
LILAC is great opportunity for our fellow professionals to present their ideas, share best practice and show case new thinking in our sector. If you have an idea then we’d love to hear about it. We have many options for the types of sessions you might run from a symposium to a workshop. Visit our Call for papers page to find out how to apply.
Find out more
Why you should attend
LILAC is organised by CILIP’s Information Literacy Group and aimed at librarians and information professionals who teach information literacy skills, are interested in digital literacies and want to improve the information seeking and evaluation skills of all our library users whoever they may be.
Find out more
Who should attend
Librarians from across the UK and around the world attend LILAC. Delegates come to us from over 30 different countries worldwide. Each year we attract significant key players in the information literacy field as keynote speakers from around the globe.
Find out more
LILAC 2017
SWANSEA UNIVERSITY (BAY CAMPUS) 10-12 APRIL 2017
The Venue
Find out all you need to know about this year's venue including accommodation, directions, facilities and more
Find out more
Not long to go...
Connecting @ LILAC
One of the great aspects of the conference is opportunity it presents to connect with fellow professionals. Catching up with old friends and colleagues or making exciting new contacts. LILAC offers plenty of ways for connecting at specific networking sessions or our conference dinner.
Find out more
LILAC on Twitter
follow us @LILAC_conf
RT @jsecker: Its Friday so I'd encourage you to follow some great friends of mine @UKCopyrightLit @cbowiemorrison @MindfulEm @thehearinglib…
17 Feb
Calling all LIS students! You have a few hours left to try and nab a free #lilac17 place (closes 17/02, 5pm GMT) https://t.co/zB96PXXycn
17 Feb
LIS students! Just 2 days left to apply for our student sponsored places for #lilac17 - closes Friday: https://t.co/zB96PXXycn
16 Feb
You can also find LILAC on
Do you remember when?
Have you been to LILAC in the past? Are you looking for notes from a presentation you attended? Maybe you are trying to recall the name of a keynote speaker or find the contact details for someone you met. Our archive provides all you need to look back at past conferences.
Visit our old website to access our archive
Parent Body
Partners
Our Sponsors
Our sponsors for 2017 are still to be announced. If you are interested in becoming a sponsor please click here
Click here to visit our Sponsors page
Contact Us
If you would like to know more about LILAC, have a question about the conference, an enquiry about bookings, awards or submitting a paper then please visit our contact page to find the right person to speak to on our committee.
Click here
© 2016 LILAC Terms Privacy
Cookie Policy
Sitemap Archive
Website developed by RF Media
